Cointelegraph: Web3 should draw newcomers, not be a ‘money grab from brands’ — Tech CEO

Cointelegraph: BTC price dips 4% as Bitcoin analysis reveals low liquidity above $33K

Cointelegraph: No civil protection for crypto in China, $300K to list coins in Hong Kong? Asia
Express

Cointelegraph: German parliament member ’staunch opponent’ of digital euro, all in on
Bitcoin

Cointelegraph: Brazil’s crypto regulatory environment is driving competitiveness — Coinext
CEO

Cointelegraph: US House Financial Services subcommittee looks for answers on crypto and crime

Cointelegraph: Bakkt shifts focus to custody services, adds support for DOGE, SHIB, other coins

Cointelegraph: AI identity platform combats ownership and deep fakes

Cointelegraph: Grayscale ETH futures ETF a ‘trojan horse’ for spot Ethereum ETF: Analyst

Cointelegraph: Ferrari’s Bitcoin acceptance is major market win, says CoinFlip CEO

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2023/11/16/blackrock-files-application-for-spot-ether-etf/
    BlackRock (BLK), the world’s largest asset manager, has filed an S-1 form with
    the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for its iShares Ethereum
    Trust, a spot ether exchange-traded fund (ETF).This move follows last week's
    corporate registration of that name and Nasdaq's filing of a 19b-4 with the SEC
    seeking approval for the spot ETF.The price of ether (ETH) briefly jumped nearly
    2% to $2,080 on the S-1 filing but has since returned to roughly its price prior
    to the news.Crypto prices have been responding swiftly to ETF-related updates,
    particularly after court rulings against the SEC’s rejection of spot crypto
    ETF applications in the last few months improved market hopes for approval. A
    spoof iShares ETF registration referencing XRP sent the token rallying 10%
    before BlackRock said it was fake.Along with several other asset managers,
    BlackRock currently is awaiting word from the SEC on listing a spot bitcoin ETF
    that could open up average investor access to the crypto dramatically. Company
    CEO Larry Fink has apparently done a complete u-turn on crypto, recently
    expressing support for the sector.UPDATE (Nov. 16, 11:50 UTC): Adds detail
    throughout.Update (Nov. 16, 13:10 UTC): Notes that the SEC application was made
    last week, and updates price action.Edited by Parikshit Mishra.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/consensus-magazine/2023/10/09/digital-asset-recap-q3-2023-bitcoin-and-ether-outperform-wider-market-amid-regulatory-pressure-and-the-promise-of-etfs/
    Over the past quarter, the CoinDesk Market Index (CMI), which spans over 90% of
    the crypto market capitalization, declined -11%. Bitcoin (BTC) outperformed the
    broad benchmark by declining -10.9% while ether (ETH) underperformed, posting a
    loss of -12.5% for the last 3 months.It's helpful to view these numbers in the
    context of their year-to-date performance, where Bitcoin has gained an
    impressive 64%, and Ether has risen by 41%. This underscores the resilience of
    these cryptocurrencies as some of the top-performing assets in 2023. This
    quarterly outperformance of BTC versus ETH and the broader CMI is a continuation
    of a trend we’ve seen throughout the year. Institutional demand for Bitcoin
    ETFs continues to support BTC, while the continued regulatory pressure on
    alternative tokens drives the bifurcation in the crypto market between the
    established majors (Bitcoin and Ether) and other digital asset protocols and
    projects.Sector-by-sectorLooking within sector quarterly performance with the
    CoinDesk DACS framework, the trends and preferences towards larger
    capitalization tokens are less clear. Over Q3 of 2023, Computing (CPU, +3%) and
    DeFi sectors (DCF, -8%) were relative out-performers, while Smart Contract
    Platform (SMT, -13%), which contains Ether, and Culture and Entertainment (CNE,
    -22%) were relative under-performers. See the chart below for a full sector
    performance breakdown for Q3 of 2023.DACS Q3 2023 Performance (CDI Research)News
    related to U.S. regulation was a key driver of price movements this quarter,
    with SEC actions featuring prominently in this. This followed regulatory
    enforcement action against Coinbase and Binance earlier in June. Meanwhile,
    regulatory filings for spot ETFs by some of the world's largest asset managers
    introduced a lot of price action ahead of potential approval dates.While July
    and August were relatively muted months for the market, September saw the
    outperformance of DeFi, Digitization and the Computing sector off the back of
    the partial Ripple court case win earlier in the month, and investor enthusiasm
    for AI, which propelled Chainlink (LINK), an on-chain data provider and the
    largest token of the Computing sector, to rise 24% for the month.September also
    marked the one-year anniversary of Ethereum’s successful transition to a
    “Proof-of-Stake” consensus mechanism. This reduces the amount of
    computational work needed to verify blocks and transactions, effectively
    eliminating its carbon footprint. So far, the network has been operating as
    intended with staking assets becoming a popular way for crypto investors to
    enhance returns. CoinDesk Indices Composite Ether Staking Rate (CESR), a metric
    used to proxy the expected income from Ethereum staking activities, averaged 4%
    (annualized) over the quarterly period, trending lower to end September at
    3.6%.One significant shift in the cryptocurrency landscape in this quarter is
    the reduced level of risk, as defined by standard risk measures. We are now
    seeing lower levels of volatility, decreased correlation with traditional
    equities, and slightly reduced correlation among the top-30 tokens, as shown
    below.Rolling Sector Correlations and Volatility (CDI Research)This shift could
    be an indication of a maturation of the market, as investors are becoming more
    discerning across token sectors, or it could be an artifact of market
    illiquidity, as trading volumes continue to decrease across large cryptocurrency
    exchanges.Where next?Bond yields are rising sharply off of a relatively hawkish
    September FOMC, where the summary of economic projections (i.e. “the dot
    plot”) eliminated the expectation for interest rate cuts in the near term.
    This dot plot guidance allowed the Federal Reserve to be clearer and more
    concise in indicating to the market that interest rates would have to be held
    higher for longer. While rising interest rates haven’t immediately impacted
    the price of digital assets, the tightening of financial conditions and
    strengthening of the U.S. dollar should be expected to add further headwinds to
    the price appreciation for crypto currencies. Coincidentally, the CoinDesk
    Bitcoin and Ether Trend Indicators have registered neutral to slightly negative
    trend signals over the first few days of Q4.A catalyst to break through the
    macroeconomic headwinds of tightening financial conditions could come in the
    approval of a Bitcoin spot ETF.Why?Firstly, it would greatly enhance
    accessibility, allowing a broader range of investors to easily gain exposure to
    Bitcoin without the complexities of direct purchase and storage, like how gold
    ETFs, starting in the early-2000s, simplified the process of gaining exposure to
    physical gold. This in turn could shift and diversify the investor base in
    cryptocurrencies, from tech-savvy enthusiasts to more mainstream, longer-term
    investors seeking diversification, which could result in a reduction in
    volatility across the digital asset market.Additionally, the ETF structure would
    facilitate easier institutional adoption, delegating asset acquisition and
    storage to qualified custodians, making it more familiar and regulated for
    institutional investors like hedge funds and pension funds.Finally, a Bitcoin
    ETF will allow investors to allocate a portion of their assets to Bitcoin as a
    store of value or an uncorrelated asset class. This could result in a
    significant influx of capital into the cryptocurrency market, marking the
    maturation of Bitcoin from a niche asset class to a regulated and accepted part
    of the traditional financial system.Edited by Ben Schiller.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2023/11/15/protocol-latest-tech-news-crypto-blockchain/
    Nov. 16: Fhenix, which announced a $7M fundraising in September to build a
    "confidential blockchain" powered by fully homomorphic encryption or (FHE),
    disclosed Thursday that it is "introducing FHE Rollups to boost privacy on
    Ethereum and similar networks." According to a message from the team: "These
    rollups enable secure on-chain transactions and private applications, letting
    developers craft confidential layer-2 networks while staying compatible with
    Ethereum." Fhenix founder Guy Zyskind told CoinDesk in an interview that "We're
    going to have our canonical Fhenix L2 mainnet," but also "We're trying to be the
    encrypted rollup stack" that builders can use to create their own networks.
    "Developers are not going to know there's crazy math and encryption under the
    hood," he said.DLN, BloXroute to Create High-Speed Cross-Chain Intents
    NetworkNov. 16: DLN, which stands for deSwap Liquidity Network, a cross-chain
    trading infrastructure build on deBridge, has entered into a strategic
    partnership with bloXroute, a DeFi performance provider, "to provide MEV
    searchers, institutional DeFi traders and projects with lightning-fast
    intents-based cross-chain value exchange," according to the team: "Thanks to the
    synergy between DLN high performance infrastructure and the fast
    transaction-propagation capabilities of bloXroute’s blockchain distribution
    network, users and integrating dApps will be able to use bloXroute API for the
    fastest cross-chain interactions available."Kinetex Gets Strategic Investment to
    Build on GnosisNov. 16: Kinetex Network, a decentralized platform for
    cross-chain trading, announced the close of a strategic funding round, a
    "seven-figure sum," led by Factor and Gnosis Chain, to build on Gnosis Chain, a
    community-led EVM layer-1, according to the team: "This partnership empowers
    Kinetex to refine its groundbreaking trading approach to transferring liquidity
    between networks that eliminates the need to store assets in pools and leverages
    zero-knowledge (Zk) technology to achieve validation without relying on third
    parties.... Kinetex plans to launch its public testnet on Gnosis Chain early
    next year. Scheduled to last three months, the test phase is geared towards
    identifying bugs and refining the user experience."Protocol Village is a regular
    feature of The Protocol, our weekly newsletter exploring the tech behind crypto,
    one block at a time. Sign up here to get it in your inbox every Wednesday.
    Project teams can submit updates here. For previous versions of Protocol
    Village, please go here.Nocturne, Protocol for On-Chain Private Accounts,
    Deploys v1 to EthereumNov. 16: Nocturne, a protocol enabling on-chain private
    accounts, has announced the successful deployment of Nocturne v1 to Ethereum
    mainnet. According to the team: "This marks a significant milestone in the
    journey towards a more private and accessible Ethereum. For the first time,
    users will have a compatible and easy-to-use product resembling a private
    onchain account."CORRECTION (Nov. 16, 11:17 UTC): Corrects spelling of Kinetex
    in headline, first line.Edited by Bradley Keoun.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/podcasts/coindesks-money-reimagined/near-foundations-founder-and-new-ceo-illia-polosukhin-explores-multi-chain-interoperability-and-open-web-vision-in-blockchain-governance/
    This episode is sponsored by CME Group and PayPal.In today's episode of "Money
    Reimagined," host Michael Casey while in Lisbon, Portugal at NEARCON 2023,
    engages in a thought-provoking conversation on the intersection of blockchain
    innovation and governance, NEAR Foundation's newly appointed CEO, Illia
    Polosukhin. He sheds light on the organization's visionary approach, emphasizing
    the pivotal role of multi-chain interoperability, scalable infrastructure, and
    user-friendly experiences in shaping the future of the open web. Shifting focus,
    Casey drives the conversation into the profound impact of AI on society,
    underscoring the importance of ethical considerations and decentralized models
    to mitigate potential risks. Simultaneously Illia highlights the promising
    synergy between AI and blockchain for transformative applications and governance
    solutions.Links |Illia Polosukhin: Building Near's Blockchain, Embedding AINear
    Foundation Joins Celestia in Race to Provide 'Data Availability' for Ethereum
    RollupsNear Foundation and Polygon Labs Collaborate to Build ZK SolutionNEAR
    FoundationNEARCON 2023From our sponsors:CME Group Cryptocurrency futures and
    options provide market-leading liquidity forbitcoin and ether trading.
    Participate in The Crypto Classic: Cryptocurrency Futures and OptionsTrading
    Challenge from Dec. 10-15 for the chance to win cash prizes. Compete against
    yourpeers while test-driving strategies for Bitcoin and Ether futures and
    options trading in a risk-freesimulated environment.Visit
    https://www.cmegroup.com/cryptoclassic to find out more.Disclaimer:This
    communication is not directed to investors located in any particular
    jurisdiction and is not intended to be accessed by recipients based in
    jurisdictions in which distribution is not permitted. The information herein
    should not be considered investment advice or the results of actual market
    experience. Past results are not necessarily indicative of future performance.
    Trading derivatives products involves the risk of loss. Please consider
    carefully whether futures or options are appropriate to your financial
    situation.-PYUSD, a stablecoin made for Payments. 1USD = 1PYUSD.Introducing
    PayPal’s new digital currency, PayPal USD (PYUSD), a stablecoin backed by U.S.
    dollar deposits, U.S Treasuries, and similar cash equivalents. Buy, sell, hold,
    and transfer it in our app or site and explore Web3 with a payments brand that
    has been trusted for over 20 years.Get Started now at paypal.com/pyusdMoney
    Reimagined has been produced and edited by senior producer Michele Musso and our
    executive producer is Jared Schwartz. Our theme song is “The News Tonight ”
    by Shimmer.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/podcasts/coindesk-podcast-network/how-much-money-are-terrorists-actually-raising-in-crypto/
    The recent Wall Street Journal article that claimed Hamas raised $130 million
    via cryptocurrency has sparked considerable debate, especially after Sen.
    Elizabeth Warren used it as her sole source to ask for tighter regulations
    around crypto. However, the veracity of this claim has come under scrutiny.Yaya
    Fanusie, Jessi Brooks, and Andrew Fierman delve into the veracity of reported
    figures, the methodology behind them, and the subsequent industry responses that
    sought to correct the public record. They examine the political implications of
    cryptocurrency, its use in funding organizations, and the nuanced role of
    stablecoins in this digital economy. Additionally, they address the broader
    challenges in regulating crypto to prevent illicit funding, emphasizing the need
    for factual accuracy and a comprehensive approach to understanding and tackling
    such complex issues.Listen to the episode on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, Overcast,
    Podcast Addict, Pocket Casts, Stitcher, Castbox, Google Podcasts, Amazon Music,
    or on your favorite podcast platform.Show highlights |How the Wall Street
    Journal article claimed that Hamas and other militant groups in Palestine raised
    $130 million via cryptoWhy Yaya, who spent some time in his career doing
    research on terrorist financing, found those numbers oddWhy Jessi believes that
    there's been a loss of focus on facts and accuracyAndrew's explanation of the
    post by Chainlaysis that corrected the recordWhy it's so difficult to make a
    confident assessment of how much money is being funneled to terrorist
    groupsWhether crypto has become politicizedWhy is it so important to focus not
    only on the crypto fundraising but also the other avenues, according to JessiThe
    role of USDT and other stablecoins in fundraising terrorist organizationsTow
    North Korea is a much more sophisticated actor than Hamas in its know-how about
    cryptoHow the government has tried to respond to the illicit usage of crypto,
    such as the OFAC sanctions on Tornado cashThe challenges to creating regulations
    to prevent the use of illicit activity in cryptoThank you to our sponsors!
    Crypto.com | LayerZero | Popcorn NetworkGuests |Yaya Fanusie, Director of
    anti-money laundering and cyber risk at the Crypto Council for
    Innovation.Previous appearance on Unchained:How Widespread Is Money Laundering
    in Crypto?Hamas has been experimenting with crypto for years: Yaya Fanusie,
    appearance on FOX BusinessJessi Brooks, CCO and Legal Officer at Ribbit
    Capital.Previous appearance on Unchained: How This DOJ Strike Force Hunts Down
    Cryptocurrency CriminalsAndrew Fierman, Head of Sanctions Strategy at
    ChainalysisLinks |Fundraising report and correctionsWSJ:Hamas Militants Behind
    Israel Attack Raised Millions in CryptoCryptocurrency Feeds Hamas’s
    TerrorismQuestioning Two Senators on Crypto TerrorismWashington Post:U.S. to
    warn crypto firms against financing Hamas, terror groupsU.S. Cyber Command helps
    prosecutors seize stolen cryptocurrency traced to illicit N. Korea nuclear
    weapons programFT: Israel orders freeze on crypto accounts in bid to block
    funding for HamasFortune: Stricter verification laws in the U.S. won’t stop
    international terrorists from using cryptoDOJ: Global Disruption of Three Terror
    Finance Cyber-Enabled CampaignsElliptic:Setting the record straight on crypto
    crowdfunding by HamasHow Hamas has utilized crypto, and what may be
    comingChainalysis:Cryptocurrency and Terrorism Financing: Correcting the
    RecordDOJ Takedowns Terrorism Financing with Blockchain AnalysisNic Carter
    Twitter thread: Can crypto-twitter OSINT outperform the WSJ’s chain
    analysis?Nic Carter Tweet: Liz Warren wyd?Tornado Cash sanctions:Bitcoin News:
    Snoop Dogg, Steve Aoki, Logan Paul, and Beeple Dusted by OFAC-Banned Tornado
    Cash TransactionsPrevious coverage of Unchained on Tornado Cash:Is This the End
    of DeFi? Why the US Government Is Going After Tornado CashThe Chopping Block:
    ‘Code Is Law’ Is ‘Obviously Not How Anything Works Ever’The Chopping
    Block: Why DeFi May Be Over-Complying With Tornado Cash SanctionsPreston Van
    Loon on Ethereum’s Merge and His Lawsuit Against TreasuryGiven the Sanctions
    on Tornado Cash, Is Ethereum Censorship Resistant?The Chopping Block: Did OFAC
    Overstep by Sanctioning Tornado Cash?Tornado Cash Sanctioned. Did the Government
    Overstep Its Bounds?Unchained: Tornado Cash Cofounder Arrested, Another
    Sanctioned by U.S. GovernmentCrypto anti-money laundering bill:Warren’s
    letter: Warren, Marshall, Casten, 100+ Lawmakers Ask Biden Administration to
    Address Crypto-Financed Terrorism after Reports of Hamas Raising Millions in
    Crypto to Fund OperationsThe Digital Asset Anti-Money Laundering Act of 2023
    Senators Elizabeth Warren and Roger MarshallCoinDesk: Senator Elizabeth
    Warren’s Crypto Money Laundering Bill Gains Momentum as More Sign OnUnchained
    Podcast is Produced by Laura Shin Media, LLC. Distributed by CoinDesk. Senior
    Producer is Michele Musso and Executive Producer is Jared Schwartz.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/consensus-magazine/2023/11/13/the-irs-is-making-crypto-compliance-impossible/
    Crypto once again doesn’t fit into the regulatory round hole. The proposed
    6045 digital asset broker regulations – currently in a comment period – are
    filled with problematic requirements. A few of them make taxpayer compliance
    impossible.This post is part of CoinDesk's Tax Week 2023. Kirk Phillips is
    founder of cryptobullseye.zone an education site with crypto crash courses and
    mastermind coaching for learning mistake-free crypto.Digital asset brokers must
    report proceeds and cost-basis on a proposed Form 1099-DA information return
    like a 1099-B but for digital assets. The complexity of cost-basis reporting
    creates multiple issues for both brokers and taxpayers creating even more work
    for the already daunting task of calculating crypto taxes.Choice of cost
    basisThe proposed regs clarify taxpayers have two cost basis choices:FIFO: The
    default method deems the oldest purchases as sold first.Specific Identification:
    The taxpayer chooses which digital assets to sell.Many people in crypto are
    familiar with FIFO and have already been using it for tax calculations. If
    taxpayers do not choose FIFO, they get relegated to a “specific
    identification” where most of the cost-basis issues arise for digital
    assets.Specific identification requirementsTaxpayers are responsible for
    specifically identifying the units of digital assets sold no later than the date
    and time of the sale, disposition, or transfer regardless of whether a broker is
    used.Specific identification must happen before-the-trade NOT after the trade.
    Taxpayers must dig through their records and mark the specific BTC (or other
    asset) in their “crypto inventory” they intend to sell. Then the taxpayer
    makes a trade and repeats the process in a time intensive exercise.The IRS
    states, “A specific identification of the units of a digital asset sold,
    disposed of, or transferred is made if, no later than the date and time of the
    sale, disposition, or transfer, the taxpayer identifies on its books and records
    the particular units to be sold…”If a taxpayer uses a broker they must
    instruct the broker which digital assets they intend to sell before-the-trade.
    In the case of a broker taxpayers must:Identify and document digital assets in
    their own recordsTell the broker to sell the assets they’ve identifiedThe IRS
    states, “…the taxpayer specifies to the broker having custody of the digital
    assets the particular units of the digital asset to be sold…”Now, if you
    don’t meet the spec id requirements, your basis defaults to FIFO and you could
    incur a gigantic tax liability. Your spec ID gets recalculated under a FIFO
    basis.Impossible to notifyThese rules apply to securities sales, so there is no
    surprise to the logic. However, crypto neither operates like legacy finance nor
    fits into the proposed reporting regime.Read more: Crypto Tax Basics: A 101 for
    BeginnersLet’s start with the broker notification requirement. Centralized
    exchanges like Coinbase and Kraken don’t provide a notification mechanism to
    support specific identification. This leaves taxpayers with no way to instruct
    the exchange to sell a specific lot of, say, bitcoin.If the exchange doesn’t
    support specific identification, they will default to FIFO reporting for all
    their customers. Meanwhile, taxpayers who previously used HIFO (highest in,
    first out), CCFO (closest cost, first out) or some other cost-basis method in
    prior years end up with a perpetual cost-basis mismatch. The exchange issues a
    1099-DA on a FIFO basis and taxpayer A calculates a totally different gain or
    loss using their own cost-basis method. You should start to see where the extra
    work is creeping in.If it’s impossible for taxpayers to instruct brokers, then
    it’s impossible for taxpayers to comply with this rule. Even if taxpayers
    could notify brokers, they still need to have a system to track and report
    1099-DAs on a specific identification basis.This creates two problems for
    taxpayers:How are taxpayers expected to reconcile between the 1099-DA and their
    own calculations?If taxpayers can even figure out the difference, how do they
    report differences on their tax return and explain the issue?Impossible to
    calculateCrypto tax software providers typically include FIFO and one or more
    other cost-basis methods such as HIFO and CCFO in the software settings.
    Taxpayers have previously used these non-FIFO methods as a proxy for specific
    identification as the software is not designed for taxpayers to identify digital
    assets before-the-trade. All these cost-basis choices including FIFO are a logic
    methodology that calculate gains and losses after-the-trade.Read more:
    International Deal to Combat Crypto Tax Evasion to Start 2027 as 48 Countries
    Sign UpIt’s practically impossible to calculate crypto taxes without the aid
    of crypto tax software, yet even if the taxpayer marks their records to indicate
    specific digital assets they intend to sell, the software can’t incorporate
    those digital assets into gain and loss calculations. Taxpayers are stuck with
    one of the logical cost-basis methods and they have to export their current
    crypto holdings into a CSV file to manually mark records outside of the
    software.If it’s impossible for taxpayers to calculate crypto tax without
    software and the software can’t support specific identification, then it’s
    impossible for taxpayers to comply.Why is this a problem for taxpayers?If
    taxpayers can’t meet the specific identification requirements, their cost
    basis method defaults to FIFO resulting in a recalculation of gains and losses.
    Then taxpayers could incur a gigantic tax liability including significant
    interest and penalties (which is headache #1).The difference between FIFO and
    other methods can be night-and-day, which is the reason taxpayers used a method
    other than FIFO in the first place. For example, Taxpayer A bought ETH in the
    2014 crowdsale and FIFO would “sell” the old ETH every time they make an ETH
    trade. Naturally, Taxpayer A opted to use a non-FIFO method to minimize
    gains.Meanwhile, taxpayer B has seven exchange accounts and 29 wallets for a
    total of 36. Before the proposed regs, Taxpayer B was 100% responsible for
    calculating his own crypto taxes. He gathered all transactions together from all
    exchanges and wallets into crypto tax software to produce Form 8949 for gains
    and losses on a universal basis. Universal means all transactions are dumped
    together for calculation purposes “as-if” they happened on a single
    exchange.Taxpayer B must now track and calculate gains on an
    exchange-by-exchange and address-by-address basis. After the proposed regs,
    Taxpayer B will get at least 36 1099-DAs and end up reconciling them with his
    own calculations. Instead of having one universal calculation, he now has 36
    separate calculations. It’s likely every one of the 36 1099-DAs is different
    from B’s calculation from various cost basis issues. The IRS just doubled,
    tripled or even quadrupled your tax prep cost as a result.The solutionEven if
    brokers and crypto tax software providers change to a specific identification
    friendly process it doesn’t magically make all the problems disappear. The IRS
    should listen to the thousands of comments, eliminate 1099-DA cost basis
    reporting and change to “proceeds only” reporting which would solve most of
    the headaches.CoinDesk does not share the editorial content or opinions
    contained within the package before publication and the sponsor does not sign
    off on or inherently endorse any individual opinions.Edited by Ben Schiller.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/podcasts/the-protocol/from-centralization-to-intent-revolution-infuras-shift-blockchains-intents-era-and-okxs-l2-triumph/
    This episode is sponsored by Consensus 2024. Follow the show here for more.In
    this installment of "The Protocol," hosts Brad Keoun, the founding editor of The
    Protocol Newsletter, and tech journalists Sam Kessler and Margaux Nijkerk,
    explore the following stories:Infura's baby step toward decentralization.Infura,
    from the Ethereum developer Consensys, is so dominant it's been cast as a single
    point of failure. Now it's creating a "decentralized infrastructure network" to
    help protect against outages – with a "federated" group of partners.What are
    ‘Intents’?Intent-centric programs are quietly transforming how we use
    blockchains, but they bring risks as well as benefits.PROTOCOL VILLAGE
    SEGMENTOKX Apes into L2 race PLUS a wrap of L2 developments
    including:KintoRedstonePolygon's Ryan Wyatt joining Optimism Foundation in a
    growth role. "We're going to need a lot of L2s," he told CoinDesk TV.Plasma
    blockchain designs, all the rage after they were first invented in 2017, could
    come back in vogue after Ethereum co-founder Vitalik Buterin wrote in a blog
    post-Tuesday that the category "opens the door to very large scalability
    gains."EPISODE LINKS |Ethereum Platform Infura's Step Toward Decentralization
    Includes Microsoft, Tencent'Intents' Are Blockchain's Big New Buzzword. What are
    They, And What Are the Risks?Cryptocurrency Exchange OKX Coming Out With Layer 2
    ‘X1’ Built on Polygon TechnologyBlockchain Startup Kinto Plans 'First KYC'd'
    Ethereum Layer-2 Network After Raising $5MBlockchain Developer Lattice Unveils
    'Alternative Data Availability' Network for OptimismEx-Polygon Veteran Wyatt
    Joins Optimism Foundation Unit in Growth RolePlasma: Scalable Autonomous Smart
    ContractsSign Up for THE PROTOCOL NEWSLETTER From Our Sponsor:CONSENSUS 2024 by
    CoindeskSecure your $109 Developer Pass today and join us in Austin May 29-31 to
    explore the epicenter of blockchain innovation at Consensus. This is where the
    top blockchains show off their latest advancements, share their detailed
    roadmaps, dive deep with technical workshops and forecast the next wave of
    innovation. Don’t wait! These passes are limited. Learn more and register:
    https://consensus.coindesk.com/register/developer/The Protocol has been produced
    and edited by senior producer Michele Musso and our executive producer is Jared
    Schwartz. Our theme song is “Take Me Back” by Strength To Last.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2023/11/16/bitcoin-dips-5-to-under-36k-as-crypto-rally-runs-into-wall-liquidating-340m-in-2-days/
    The bitcoin (BTC) yo-yo of the past week continued on Thursday, with Wednesday's
    rally completely reversed, leaving the crypto down 5% for the session and
    trading under $36,000.It was just 24 hours ago that bitcoin was surging and
    within a few dollars of crossing the $38,000 level for the first time in more
    than 18 months.As has been a familiar trend during the upswing over the past six
    weeks, a wave of sell orders was likely sitting close to a round number. When
    bitcoin approached $38,000, the sell orders took over, sending the price lower.
    That, in turn, triggered liquidations of leveraged long positions, sending the
    price hurtling further downward.Indeed, the crypto market's two-day
    rollercoaster hit derivatives traders heavily, liquidating some $340 million of
    leveraged positions over the period, CoinGlass data shows.Total crypto
    liquidations per day (CoinGlass)SOL, LINK give up gains; AVAX extends rallyMost
    cryptocurrencies followed bitcoin lower during the day, with ether (ETH)
    dropping 4% over the past 24 hours to $1,960. Solana's (SOL) and Chainlink's
    native token (LINK) declined 6% and 9%, respectively.Fading the plunge today was
    Avalanche's native token (AVAX), extending yesterday's double-digit rally with
    another 7% gain.The CoinDesk Market Index (CMI), which tracks the performance of
    a basket of almost 200 cryptocurrencies, dropped 4% during the day.Spot bitcoin
    ETF delay slows momentumThe U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)
    Wednesday delayed a decision about HashDex's spot BTC ETF application,
    increasing the odds that it won't approve any such vehicles this year.Crypto
    market analytics firm K33 Research noted earlier this week in a report said that
    a lack of an SEC decision this week could halt momentum in the crypto market
    until the next deadline early in 2024.Heightened optimism about spot ETFs and
    what are hoped to be sizable institutional and retail inflows helped propel
    bitcoin from $25,000 in September to just shy of $38,000. There still could be
    news this week as Franklin Templeton has a decision deadline of tomorrow. Few,
    though, are expecting anything except another delay from the SEC.Edited by
    Stephen Alpher.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/podcasts/coindesk-podcast-network/sbf-trial-podcast-inside-the-courtroom-with-coindesk/
    CoinDesk's SBF Trial Newsletter team shares their unique insights from inside
    the court room and exclusive behind-the-scenes anecdotes from their coverage of
    Sam Bankman-Fried's criminal trial.Credits: Nikhilesh De, Managing Editor,
    Policy and Regulation, CoinDeskSam Kessler, Deputy Managing Editor, Technology,
    CoinDeskElizabeth Napolitano, Reporter, Policy and Regulation CoinDeskDanny
    Nelson, Managing Editor, Data & Tokens, CoinDeskMarc Hochstein, Executive
    Editor, CoinDeskPubkey https://pubkey.bar/
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/business/2023/11/16/bitcoin-is-coming-to-sushi-as-defi-platform-expands-to-zetachain/
    Decentralized finance (DeFi) platform Sushi said it is expanding to layer-1
    blockchain ZetaChain to add native bitcoin (BTC) support.The addition of
    ZetaChain, which raised $27 million earlier this year, introduces the first
    native bitcoin trading in DeFi, enabling users to swap the largest
    cryptocurrency across 30 networks without wrapping, Sushi said in a release.
    Wrapping a coin allows it to be used on a different blockchain than the one it
    was originally issued on."We're aiming to empower bitcoin holders to engage with
    key DeFi primitives, such as trading, along with more sophisticated applications
    like lending and borrowing," Jonathan Covey, a core contributor to ZetaChain,
    said in an interview with CoinDesk. By allowing bitcoin to be used with Sushi,
    it goes beyond its traditional use case as just a store of value, he
    said."Bitcoin is the largest liquidity pool, and there's a lot of opportunity
    for developers to involve that in all sorts of Defi applications," Covey
    said.Over the past month, bitcoin's price and trading volume have surged amid
    mounting anticipation that approval of a bitcoin exchange-traded fund (ETF) is
    coming. The ZetaChain team says they have been working on this for years, and
    it's just a coincidence the release is happening at the same time.Ankur
    Nandwani, founder of ZetaChain and co-founder of Basic Attention Token,
    explained that previous attempts like Colored Coins and Mastercoin laid the
    groundwork for their current innovations, and noted the growing community of
    developers working on bitcoin utility."We're at an inflection point where we're
    moving beyond merely recording bitcoin transactions as hashes on the blockchain,
    to developing applications that utilize actual bitcoin," he said.Edited by
    Sheldon Reback.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2023/11/16/bitcoin-could-reach-45k-by-year-end-analyst-says/
    Bitcoin will reach $40,000 – if not even $45,000 – by the year’s end, DeFi
    Research’s Markus Thielen said.Thielen explained that options market flows and
    dovish Fed expectations are likely to power the cryptocurrency higher into the
    year’s end.Bitcoin’s (BTC) bullish momentum will likely remain intact
    heading into the end of the year, lifting prices to the $40,000 mark, according
    to Markus Thielen, research head at crypto services provider Matrixport and
    founder of analytics portal DeFi Research.“Bitcoin will reach $40,000 – if
    not even $45,000 – by the year’s end,” Thielen said in a note shared with
    CoinDesk, citing options market positioning and dovish Federal Reserve (Fed)
    expectations as catalysts for continued price gains. The cryptocurrency has more
    than doubled this year, with prices rising nearly 40% in the past four weeks
    alone.The recent bullish action spurred demand for call options or derivatives,
    giving the purchaser the right to snap up the underlying asset at a
    predetermined price later.Per Thielen, the increased demand for the so-called
    bullish bets has left some market participants, mainly market makers, who are
    always on the opposite side of clients’ trades, exposed to continued upside in
    cryptocurrency. These entities will likely buy BTC and hedge themselves as
    prices rise, adding to bullish pressures around the cryptocurrency.“We have
    two colossal options expiries on Nov. 24 and Dec. 29 with $3.7bn and $5.4
    billion open interest outstanding. There are 85% more calls outstanding than
    puts, with the 40,000 strikes having the most significant open interest. The
    closer we get to $40,000, the more people will have to buy bitcoin to hedge
    themselves,” Thielen noted.“There will be a broad interest in pushing prices
    to this $40,000 level. The odds are high that we reach this level,” Thielen
    added. At press time, bitcoin was changing hands at $37,445.Another factor
    supporting the bullish case is the receding U.S. inflation rate and hopes for
    rate cuts or liquidity easing by the Fed.The Fed rates by 525 basis points in 14
    months to May 2023 to tame rampant inflation. The Fed’s rapid liquidity
    tightening disincentivized investing in risky assets and was partly responsible
    for last year’s crypto crash.The inflation rate, however, has markedly slowed
    in recent months, having reached as high as 9.1% in June last year. Data
    released Tuesday showed the U.S. CPI climbed 3.2% in the 12 months through
    October, following September’s 3.7% rise.Per UBS, slowing inflation means the
    Fed could halve the benchmark interest rate to 2.75% from the present range of
    5.25% to 5.5%. Per the Fed funds futures, markets have priced in 90 basis points
    of rate cuts by the end of 2024.“The U.S. inflation headline CPI is currently
    at 3.2% while interest rates are at 5.25% – a difference of 2.0%. If our
    inflation model is current, then this spread would even be 3.0% – so we could
    expect 200 basis points of rate cuts next year. This is bullish,” Thielen
    said.Thielen expects inflation, as measured by the consumer price index (CPI),
    to drop below the Fed’s 2% target in 2024.Lastly, the spot ETF optimism could
    continue to support price gains. According to Bloomberg’s analysts, there is a
    90% chance the SEC will approve one or more spot ETFs before Jan. 10.Read:
    Crypto Market Sees Net Capital Inflow for First Time in 17 MonthsEdited by
    Parikshit Mishra.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/business/2023/11/16/strike-rolls-out-bitcoin-purchases-to-users-globally/
    Bitcoin firm Strike has expanded its services on a global scale, now allowing
    users in 36 countries (soon to be 65+) beyond the U.S. to buy bitcoin through
    the app, founder Jack Mallers announced in a blog post Thursday.“We’re
    rolling out a highly anticipated feature that Bitcoiners worldwide have
    requested for years,” Mallers wrote. “Now, Strike users around the globe can
    experience the ease of buying bitcoin directly through our platform.”Unlike
    the U.S. where there is no fee for bitcoin purchases, global users will incur a
    3.9% fee on their buys. Mallers hopes to lower the cost eventually, but points
    out that this fee is lower than most of Strike's competitors.Among other
    initiatives announced today, Strike is partnering with crypto payments firm
    Bitrefill, which uses the Lightning Network – Bitcoin’s secondary payment
    layer – to allow global users to make everyday purchases instantly and nearly
    free of charge.Edited by Stephen Alpher.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2023/11/15/protocol-latest-tech-news-crypto-blockchain/
    Nov. 16: Fhenix, which announced a $7M fundraising in September to build a
    "confidential blockchain" powered by fully homomorphic encryption or (FHE),
    disclosed Thursday that it is "introducing FHE Rollups to boost privacy on
    Ethereum and similar networks." According to a message from the team: "These
    rollups enable secure on-chain transactions and private applications, letting
    developers craft confidential layer-2 networks while staying compatible with
    Ethereum." Fhenix founder Guy Zyskind told CoinDesk in an interview that "We're
    going to have our canonical Fhenix L2 mainnet," but also "We're trying to be the
    encrypted rollup stack" that builders can use to create their own networks.
    "Developers are not going to know there's crazy math and encryption under the
    hood," he said.DLN, BloXroute to Create High-Speed Cross-Chain Intents
    NetworkNov. 16: DLN, which stands for deSwap Liquidity Network, a cross-chain
    trading infrastructure build on deBridge, has entered into a strategic
    partnership with bloXroute, a DeFi performance provider, "to provide MEV
    searchers, institutional DeFi traders and projects with lightning-fast
    intents-based cross-chain value exchange," according to the team: "Thanks to the
    synergy between DLN high performance infrastructure and the fast
    transaction-propagation capabilities of bloXroute’s blockchain distribution
    network, users and integrating dApps will be able to use bloXroute API for the
    fastest cross-chain interactions available."Kinetex Gets Strategic Investment to
    Build on GnosisNov. 16: Kinetex Network, a decentralized platform for
    cross-chain trading, announced the close of a strategic funding round, a
    "seven-figure sum," led by Factor and Gnosis Chain, to build on Gnosis Chain, a
    community-led EVM layer-1, according to the team: "This partnership empowers
    Kinetex to refine its groundbreaking trading approach to transferring liquidity
    between networks that eliminates the need to store assets in pools and leverages
    zero-knowledge (Zk) technology to achieve validation without relying on third
    parties.... Kinetex plans to launch its public testnet on Gnosis Chain early
    next year. Scheduled to last three months, the test phase is geared towards
    identifying bugs and refining the user experience."Protocol Village is a regular
    feature of The Protocol, our weekly newsletter exploring the tech behind crypto,
    one block at a time. Sign up here to get it in your inbox every Wednesday.
    Project teams can submit updates here. For previous versions of Protocol
    Village, please go here.Nocturne, Protocol for On-Chain Private Accounts,
    Deploys v1 to EthereumNov. 16: Nocturne, a protocol enabling on-chain private
    accounts, has announced the successful deployment of Nocturne v1 to Ethereum
    mainnet. According to the team: "This marks a significant milestone in the
    journey towards a more private and accessible Ethereum. For the first time,
    users will have a compatible and easy-to-use product resembling a private
    onchain account."CORRECTION (Nov. 16, 11:17 UTC): Corrects spelling of Kinetex
    in headline, first line.Edited by Bradley Keoun.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/video/blackrock-files-ether-etf-prospectus-vivek-ramaswamy-proposes-new-crypto-rules/
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2023/11/16/first-mover-americas-sec-delays-decision-on-hashdexs-etf-application/
    This article originally appeared in First Mover, CoinDesk’s daily newsletter
    putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context. Subscribe to get it in
    your inbox every day.Latest PricesTop StoriesThe U.S. Securities and Exchange
    Commission (SEC) is delaying a decision on an application by Hashdex to convert
    its existing bitcoin futures exchange-traded fund (ETF) into a spot vehicle. The
    agency also delayed action on Grayscale's attempt to launch a new futures-based
    ether ETF. Hashdex filed to convert its bitcoin futures ETF into a spot bitcoin
    ETF in September. Grayscale (a subsidiary of CoinDesk parent Digital Currency
    Group) filed for its ether futures ETF that same month. Both filings faced
    initial deadlines of Nov. 17 for a decision, but the SEC said it was extending
    this window, according to a pair of Wednesday filings.The Philippines government
    said it plans to raise 10 billion pesos ($180 million) through the sale of a
    tokenized treasury bond next week, in the latest move by a government to embrace
    blockchain technology to digitize its domestic debt market. The planned sale
    follows an offering from Hong Kong, which issued an 800 million-Hong Kong dollar
    ($103 million) tokenized green bond in February. The Philippines Bureau of the
    Treasury intends to confirm the interest rate of the one-year bond on Nov. 20,
    with the issue and settlement date set for Nov. 22. It reserved the right to
    change the mechanics of the issue.Bitcoin’s (BTC) bullish momentum will likely
    remain intact heading into the end of the year, lifting prices to the $40,000
    mark, according to Markus Thielen, research head at crypto services provider
    Matrixport and founder of analytics portal DeFi Research. “Bitcoin will reach
    $40,000 – if not even $45,000 – by the year’s end,” Thielen said in a
    note shared with CoinDesk, citing options market positioning and dovish Federal
    Reserve expectations as catalysts for continued price gains. The cryptocurrency
    has more than doubled this year, with prices rising nearly 40% in the past four
    weeks alone. The recent bullish action spurred demand for call options, or
    derivatives giving the purchaser the right to snap up the underlying asset at a
    predetermined price later.Chart of the DayThe chart shows the 24-hour change in
    open interest in futures tied to the top 30 cryptocurrencies by market
    value.Open interest in DOGE and AVAX has increased by nearly 20%, while OI in
    BTC has declined by 2.5%.An influx of new money into non-serious tokens like
    DOGE and alternative coins suggests an increased risk appetite in the
    market.Source: Velo Data- Omkar GodboleTrending PostsU.S. Lawmakers Urge
    Treasury to Revise Proposed Crypto Tax RulesSingapore Central Bank to Start
    'Live' Wholesale CBDC TrialsDo Kwon's Appeal in Fake Passport Case Denied by
    Montenegro High CourtEdited by Sheldon Reback.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/video/sec-postpones-decision-on-hashdex-bitcoin-spot-etf-application/
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2023/11/15/bitcoin-bounces-6-threatens-38k-good-times-are-here-analyst-says/
    Cryptocurrencies Wednesday roared back from yesterday's drubbing, with bitcoin
    (BTC) nearing a new 18-month high just shy of $38,000 after tumbling below
    $35,000 at one point on Tuesday.Ether (ETH) advanced more than 3% to near
    $2,060, retaking the $2,000 level after yesterday's fall to nearly $1,900.Native
    tokens of layer 1 blockchains Solana (SOL) and Avalanche (AVAX) led gains among
    altcoins, with 18% and 23% jumps during the day, respectively.SOL has been a
    leader of altcoins for weeks now, nearly tripling in price over the past month,
    as concerns about FTX dumping its tokens subsided and demand among institutional
    investors increased. AVAX perhaps benefitted from a recent announcement that
    traditional-finance giants JPMorgan and Apollo used the network to demonstrate a
    "proof of concept" for how asset managers could tokenize funds, a red-hot trend
    in crypto.The CoinDesk Market Index (CMI), a market-cap weighted basket of
    almost 200 cryptos, was up 5%, underscoring the market-wide positive day for
    digital assets.Bitcoin outperforms gold and equities"Bitcoin is going
    mainstream, and the bear is behind us," Charlie Morris, founder of investment
    advisory firm ByteTree, said in a Wednesday market report. "The good times are
    here."ByteTree highlighted BTC's strong showing compared to traditional assets
    such as U.S. equity indexes and gold, which have also been
    advancing."Bitcoin’s trend is not only strong in dollars, but strong against
    other key assets," Morris noted. "This is important for institutional adoption
    because they don’t buy alternative assets unless there’s a little extra
    return."Morris also noted the strengthening trend of altcoins as the market
    breadth improved after a grueling two years of crypto winter.ByteTree Crypto
    Average (BCA) trend score (ByteTree)The ByteTree Crypto Average (BCA) trend
    breadth indicator, which measures the equal-weight daily average price changes
    for the top 100 tokens, flashed a four-star rating out of five for the first
    time since April."When the trend is positive, it is better to have higher
    exposure to crypto," Morris said.Edited by Stephen Alpher.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/sponsored-content/curious-about-phemexia-discover-how-a-top-5-exchange-can-accelerate-web3-adoption/
    Phemex’s Web3 world will soon be complete with the launch of its platform and
    governance token. Here’s what traders can expect.Phemex does not do
    group-think. Rather than accept the false choice that a crypto exchange needs to
    be either centralized or decentralized, Phemex paved a hybrid, best-of-breed
    path. Rather than elevate a financial analyst or cryptographer or some other
    linear thinker to the top executive position, the board named fast-rising Web 3
    advocate Stella Chan to the COO spot. Phemex dedicated more than a year and
    marshaled the resources of a team of trading experts to define what that future
    should look like and how best to get there.They call that vision Phemexia.While
    Phemex has been operating as a centralized exchange for years, it’s now
    shifting gears to embrace a hybrid future. The goal is to retain all that’s
    best in CeFi – efficiency, community, security – while constructing a
    liberating, fair and dependable decentralized society.Community first: rewarding
    and growing togetherThe Phemex team is all ears when it comes to their
    community. They've recognized early on that today's traders crave more control,
    and Phemex plans to deliver, with a rock-solid commitment to reliability and
    efficiency. The transition to Phemexia – the exchange’s overall vision for a
    Web3-native finance and business experience – will enable Phemex users to link
    their Web3 wallets and take advantage of seamless transaction and mining.Of
    course, even the most private and secure society needs to have some sense of
    connection, and that is why Phemexia starts with what Vitalik Buterin described
    as a “soulbound token.” Phemex Soul Pass is key to establishing and
    fostering this society. By launching a non-tradable, non-transferable soulbound
    token, Phemex is setting the standards for the fundamental elements of a
    decentralized society within an exchange. The Phemex Soul Pass mechanisms will
    facilitate a new ownership system that builds authentic trust and cooperation
    through a bottom-up approach.Phemex is fully committed to keeping the excitement
    alive. More than 16,000 current community members share a strong belief that
    they can flourish within the Phemex ecosystem and reap its rewards. The exchange
    is extending an invitation to this community to get on board early and
    potentially ride the wave to higher returns.All this begs the question: Are we
    now looking into Phemex’s native platform token launch?Securing
    PhemexiaSecurity is, of course, critical to any centralized exchange, and Phemex
    has been no exception. Now the priority is to maintain security as it moves
    toward a more decentralized, Web3-native Phemexia world.Advanced security
    measures and technologies such as multi-factor authentication and real-time risk
    monitoring systems will remain in place to protect users' funds and personal
    information. But perhaps the most important current feature that will continue
    to operate in Phemexia is the Hierarchical Deterministic Cold Wallet System to
    process and store user funds safely, without any risk of hacks by being
    connected to any network. This system is proprietary to Phemex and has helped
    the platform avoid any hacking since its 2019 inception.Another measure that
    will be retained is the monthly update of Phemex’s Merkle Tree proof of
    reserves and proof of solvency. Phemex will also continue to publicize a portion
    of its cold wallets so any user can confirm that the exchange’s assets are
    greater than its liabilities at all times.While all this remains in place, the
    Phemexia team is developing a secure DeFi stack, ensuring a safe environment for
    users to engage with innovative products. This hybrid approach allows users to
    benefit from the reliability of a centralized exchange while also embracing the
    autonomy associated with a decentralized exchange.About that token …As the
    only top 5 cryptocurrency exchange that has not yet introduced a platform token,
    Phemex has seen a surge of interest and excitement surrounding its plan to
    launch one. As for when that launch date will arrive, crypto natives and Web3
    enthusiasts will be thrilled to learn that Phemex is planning to launch its
    platform token November 30.PT will be an on-chain ERC20 token that unlocks a
    range of benefits and functionalities. These include staking yields, trader
    bounty rewards and Phemex DAO governance. In the future, Phemex plans to build
    out DeFi protocols such as AMMs and decentralized lending and borrowing, all
    being facilitated by PT.Chan and the team have nothing but high hopes for their
    upcoming token, and they have good reasons for their optimism."With robust
    tokenomics and guided by a visionary approach, we are preparing for the launch
    of a token with immense potential,” Chan says. “Our excitement stems from
    the belief that the Phemex token has the capability to propel its holders to the
    moon and beyond. We place great importance on laying a sturdy foundation for our
    token holders, exemplified by our decision to initiate the burning of the fifth
    stage of xPT pre-mining, funneling all proceeds into the treasury. Our ultimate
    goal is to provide our traders with a token that offers long-term benefits. We
    can't wait to witness its evolution and the incredible journey ahead.”Phemex
    users have already been getting their hands on PT through the pre-mining event.
    The good news is, there's still plenty of space on the rocket for crypto
    enthusiasts to hop on board. Phemex is now launching their "Phemex Token to the
    Moon" event, starting with an "airdrop tsunami," providing their growing
    community early access to the upcoming platform token.In their "journey to the
    moon," Phemex welcomes traders into their Web3 ecosystem, fostering growth
    alongside the community they've been diligently cultivating.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2023/11/15/the-protocol-ethereum-layer-2s-keep-coming-as-okx-apes-in/
    As blockchain developers head into the final stretch of 2023, a few trends stand
    out: the proliferation of Ethereum layer-2 networks, the ascendancy of
    zero-knowledge cryptography and the appearance of tokens, smart contracts and
    now file hosting on the Bitcoin blockchain.Another theme gathering momentum is
    interoperability – the idea that all of these blockchains and layers might
    eventually be connected. For today's feature, Sam Kessler examines "intents," a
    type of blockchain interaction that's rooted in the idea that the broader
    ecosystem of these increasingly intertwined networks could become more
    challenging to navigate.Everybody's doing it – launching new layer-2
    blockchains atop Ethereum to provide a venue for cheap and easy transactions.
    This week brought the news (thanks to this scoop from our Margaux Nijkerk) that
    the crypto exchange Kraken may be considering its own layer-2 network, just
    months after rival Coinbase launched a layer-2, Base. Details
    below.Also:Protocol Village: Infura, Zircuit, Rarimo, Agrotoken, UpshotOrdinals
    inscriptions activity linked to surge in Bitcoin transaction fees.Ethereum's
    Vitalik Buterin puts "plasma" networks back in the mix.You're reading The
    Protocol, CoinDesk’s weekly newsletter that explores the tech behind crypto,
    one block at a time. Subscribe here to get it every week.Network newsLAYER 2'S
    EVERYWHERE: In last week's The Protocol, we dedicated a not-inconsiderable
    quantity of ink to the fast-growing list of new "layer 2" blockchains aiming to
    provide a venue for fast and speedy transactions atop Ethereum. Grab another
    well, cause there's been plenty more announcements already this week. The most
    notable was inarguably Tuesday's disclosure by the crypto exchange OKX that it
    plans to build a layer 2 using Polygon's technology. Wednesday brought the news
    of Kinto, which has raised $5 million this year to develop a layer-2 network
    that's fully compliant with anti-money-laundering laws using Optimism's OP
    Stack, and Redstone, an "alternative data availability" chain designed by the
    Lattice team for OP Stack. There are nagging questions about just who is going
    to use all these networks, but developers suggest there's still not enough.
    "We're going to need a lot of L2s," Ryan Wyatt, who was just hired by a unit of
    the Optimism Foundation as chief growth officer after leaving Polygon Labs
    several months ago, told CoinDesk TV this week. "One chain, a mainnet, is not
    going to do it." Even Cardano founder Charles Hoskinson tried to elbow into the
    mix, posting Sunday on X (formerly Twitter) that "I'm game if you are" –
    attaching a link to CoinDesk's article last week about Kraken's discussions with
    prospective layer-2 technology partners including Polygon, Matter Labs and Nil
    Foundation – and tagging Kraken Chairman Jesse Powell. One snarky poster
    replied, "If this is how we reaching out, most likely not
    happening."ALSO:Bitcoin researcher Robin Linus has ignited fresh buzz with
    "BitStream" paper on file hosting using the original blockchain, just a month
    after his "BitVM" paper stirred up the community with the prospect of
    Ethereum-style smart contracts.Plasma blockchain designs, all the rage after
    they were first invented in 2017, could come back in vogue after Ethereum
    co-founder Vitalik Buterin wrote in a blog post Tuesday that the category "opens
    the door to very large scalability gains."Former boxing champ Manny Pacquiao’s
    foundation will use the Ethereum layer-2 blockchain Shibarium, from the
    SHIB-token-focused Shiba Inu project, for its operations.National Hockey League
    (finally) comes around to digital collectibles, using NFT-minting platform
    Sweet.Standard Chartered bank's investment arm launches tokenization
    platform.Yuga Labs confirms UVA-A emitting lights were the cause of ApeFest eye
    issues.Hacker steals $27M in USDT from wallet linked to Binance deployer wallet,
    which has been inactive since December 2020.El Salvador remains in the red on
    bitcoin holdings, but losses are narrowing.Protocol VillageHighlighting
    blockchain tech upgrades and developments.1. Ethereum platform Infura takes step
    toward decentralization with Microsoft, Tencent.2. Zircuit, a new EVM-compatible
    ZK rollup, is announcing its public testnet launch. According to the team:
    "Zircuit uses a hybrid approach that combines the latest ZK proofs with
    optimistic infrastructure. More efficient proof generation results in reduced
    fees and the development of new compression algorithms increases transaction
    speeds and saves users gas..3. Rarimo, an interoperability protocol for
    cross-chain identity and asset management, has launched version 2.0 of its
    Proof-of-Humanity plug-in, a solution that enables Web3 dApps to verify its
    users are humans instead of bots, according to the team.4. Agrotoken, the first
    global tokenization infrastructure for agricultural commodities, has announced
    its plans to launch on Polkadot, to enable seamless tokenization of agricultural
    commodities. According to the team: "Visa-backed Agrotoken is to build a
    Polkadot parachain that tokenizes soybeans, corn and wheat."5. Upshot, a
    protocol for decentralized delivery of alpha signals, announced its Machine
    Intelligence Network, according to the team: "The network crowdsources financial
    alpha produced by disparate machine learning models. 'Alpha Miners' contribute
    insights to the network in the form of proprietary data, predictive model
    features, or predictions, then are rewarded based on how useful their alpha is
    (as determined by our new 'Proof of Alpha' scoring mechanism)."See the entire
    Protocol Village list from this past week here. Money CenterFunraisingsTokenized
    cash fintech firm Fnality raises $95M led by Goldman and BNP Paribas.
    (Link)Superstate, a tokenization startup led by Compound founder Robert Leshner,
    gets $14M investment to bring traditional funds on-chain. (Link)Solana-based
    stablecoin remittances get boost with CFX Labs' fresh $9.5M fundraise to expand
    globally. (Link)Blockchain.com closes $110M raise: Bloomberg (Link)Deals and
    grantsCrypto exchange Bithumb plans South Korea IPO in second-half 2025: Report.
    (Link)Asia fund picks up majority stake in The Block, buys out shares tied to
    Sam Bankman-Fried loan. (Link)Ethereum scaling platform Polygon Labs has started
    an $85M grant program to entice developers to build applications in its
    ecosystem.Data and tokensDYDX token pumps ahead of massive $500M token unlock.
    (Link)Ethereum fees briefly jumped to $100 after BlackRock’s ETH ETF filing.
    (Link)DeFi Platform Raft suffers $3.3M exploit, but hacker likely took a loss on
    the attack. (Link)"Grayscale discount" continues to narrow as spot bitcoin,
    ether ETF euphoria works through markets. (Link)Cardano-based DEX MuesliSwap to
    open refund site 'soon' as some users voice concerns. (Link)Regulatory, Policy,
    and LegalGermany's Commerzbank wins crypto custody license. (Link)Singapore's
    central bank sponsors tokenization pilots alongside financial services
    heavyweights JPMorgan, UBS, along with blockchain firms including Axelar, Oasis
    Pro, Provenance Blockchain. (Link)As IMF chief says central bank digital
    currencies (CBDCs) can replace cash, and Kazakhstan's central bank pilots a
    digital tenge, Bank of America predicts the U.S. Federal Reserve is unlikely to
    issue a digital dollar in the near term. (Link)Fake BlackRock XRP ETF filing
    referred to Delaware Department of Justice. (Link)Bitcoin Transaction Fees Spike
    to Highest in Six MonthsChart of Bitcoin average transaction fees (in U.S.
    dollars) shows recent spike, hitting $15.865 on Nov. 9.
    (BitInfoCharts.com)Bitcoin transaction fees surged on Nov. 9 to $15.865, the
    highest in six months, according to BitInfoCharts, and some blockchain analysts
    are pointing the finger at a rise in Ordinals inscriptions activity – related
    to the tokens-on-Bitcoin frenzy that stirred up worries earlier this year over
    network congestion. Galaxy Research noted in a post on X that "over the last
    seven days, inscriptions-related transactions have made up 40% of total Bitcoin
    transaction count." CoinDesk reported that the gains came after Binance listed
    Ordinals’ ORDI tokens on its platform." Blockware Intelligence wrote that "the
    low priority-fee rate currently sits around ~69 sat/vByte but it reached as high
    as 250 sat/vByte last week" – contributing to a "boost to miner profits
    courtesy of higher transaction fees and a higher BTC price." According to
    analysts at Coinbase Institutional, "Ordinal trading volumes (averaging $10M
    daily) over the past week have been comparable to NFT trading volumes on
    Ethereum (averaging $16M daily)."CalendarNov. 13-19: Devconnect, Istanbul.Nov.
    15-17: North American Blockchain Summit, Fort Worth, Texas.Nov. 28: EOS native
    consensus upgrade with “instant finality.”Dec. 1-3: Africa Bitcoin
    Conference, Ghana.Jan. 30: Stellar upgrade for Soroban smart contracts, public
    network readiness date.Feb. 22-24: Bitcoin++, Buenos Aires.April 2024
    (estimate): Next Bitcoin halving.April 8-12: Paris Blockchain Week.May 29-31,
    2024: Consensus, Austin TexasJuly 25-27: Bitcoin 2024, Nashville.Edited by
    Bradley Keoun.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2023/11/16/bitcoin-could-reach-45k-by-year-end-analyst-says/
    Bitcoin will reach $40,000 – if not even $45,000 – by the year’s end, DeFi
    Research’s Markus Thielen said.Thielen explained that options market flows and
    dovish Fed expectations are likely to power the cryptocurrency higher into the
    year’s end.Bitcoin’s (BTC) bullish momentum will likely remain intact
    heading into the end of the year, lifting prices to the $40,000 mark, according
    to Markus Thielen, research head at crypto services provider Matrixport and
    founder of analytics portal DeFi Research.“Bitcoin will reach $40,000 – if
    not even $45,000 – by the year’s end,” Thielen said in a note shared with
    CoinDesk, citing options market positioning and dovish Federal Reserve (Fed)
    expectations as catalysts for continued price gains. The cryptocurrency has more
    than doubled this year, with prices rising nearly 40% in the past four weeks
    alone.The recent bullish action spurred demand for call options or derivatives,
    giving the purchaser the right to snap up the underlying asset at a
    predetermined price later.Per Thielen, the increased demand for the so-called
    bullish bets has left some market participants, mainly market makers, who are
    always on the opposite side of clients’ trades, exposed to continued upside in
    cryptocurrency. These entities will likely buy BTC and hedge themselves as
    prices rise, adding to bullish pressures around the cryptocurrency.“We have
    two colossal options expiries on Nov. 24 and Dec. 29 with $3.7bn and $5.4
    billion open interest outstanding. There are 85% more calls outstanding than
    puts, with the 40,000 strikes having the most significant open interest. The
    closer we get to $40,000, the more people will have to buy bitcoin to hedge
    themselves,” Thielen noted.“There will be a broad interest in pushing prices
    to this $40,000 level. The odds are high that we reach this level,” Thielen
    added. At press time, bitcoin was changing hands at $37,445.Another factor
    supporting the bullish case is the receding U.S. inflation rate and hopes for
    rate cuts or liquidity easing by the Fed.The Fed rates by 525 basis points in 14
    months to May 2023 to tame rampant inflation. The Fed’s rapid liquidity
    tightening disincentivized investing in risky assets and was partly responsible
    for last year’s crypto crash.The inflation rate, however, has markedly slowed
    in recent months, having reached as high as 9.1% in June last year. Data
    released Tuesday showed the U.S. CPI climbed 3.2% in the 12 months through
    October, following September’s 3.7% rise.Per UBS, slowing inflation means the
    Fed could halve the benchmark interest rate to 2.75% from the present range of
    5.25% to 5.5%. Per the Fed funds futures, markets have priced in 90 basis points
    of rate cuts by the end of 2024.“The U.S. inflation headline CPI is currently
    at 3.2% while interest rates are at 5.25% – a difference of 2.0%. If our
    inflation model is current, then this spread would even be 3.0% – so we could
    expect 200 basis points of rate cuts next year. This is bullish,” Thielen
    said.Thielen expects inflation, as measured by the consumer price index (CPI),
    to drop below the Fed’s 2% target in 2024.Lastly, the spot ETF optimism could
    continue to support price gains. According to Bloomberg’s analysts, there is a
    90% chance the SEC will approve one or more spot ETFs before Jan. 10.Read:
    Crypto Market Sees Net Capital Inflow for First Time in 17 MonthsEdited by
    Parikshit Mishra.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2023/11/16/pancakeswap-targets-gamefi-with-release-of-gaming-marketplace/
    Decentralized exchange PancakeSwap released its Gaming Marketplace on Wednesday,
    allowing developers to directly build, publish, and update games on the platform
    as it targets the niche gaming finance (GameFi) market.GameFi broadly refers to
    gaming applications using tokens to raise funds and incentivize growth. Some of
    these projects, such as Axie Infinity, were among the top-performing tokens by
    price growth in the 2021 bull market.The Gaming Marketplace features two
    published games: the popular “Pancake Protectors'' developed in partnership
    with Mobox in May 2023, and the new “Pancake Mayor'', a casual city-building
    game. The Pancake Protectors game has attracted over 25,000 players in a single
    day at its peak.PancakeSwap operates on nine popular blockchains: BNB Chain,
    Ethereum, Aptos, Polygon zkEVM, zkSync Era, Arbitrum One, Linea, Base, and
    opBNB, and developers from any of these blockchains can build and release games
    on the marketplace.PancakeSwap’s CAKE rose as much as 5% in the past 24 hours
    before reversing gains.Edited by Parikshit Mishra.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2023/11/15/cftc-chief-nothing-changed-after-ftx-meltdown-to-empower-agency-to-prevent-repeat/
    U.S. regulators don't have any more authority now to head off another major
    crypto collapse than they did when FTX imploded and took much of the industry
    with it, said Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) Chairman Rostin
    Behnam."Nothing has changed, and we could be in a position where another
    FTX-type event happens," Behnam said Wednesday at the Financial Markets Quality
    Conference 2023 at Georgetown University. However, he noted that the crypto
    investing enthusiasm has calmed since the months before FTX, and "the market
    environment is much, much different today than it was a year ago."He noted –
    as he routinely does – that the CFTC has limited powers over the markets in
    which assets such as bitcoin trade directly. In that spot market, his agency
    only has the authority to intervene when market-manipulation and fraudulent
    activity is pointed out to the regulators. CFTC officials don't have the reach
    they do in the crypto derivatives sector, where they can assess companies'
    registrations and supervise their behaviors directly. And the Securities and
    Exchange Commission (SEC) only polices the securities markets.While SEC Chair
    Gary Gensler has repeatedly said he believes the bulk of crypto tokens are
    securities, there are some cryptocurrencies, like bitcoin, that don't fall under
    that regulator's jurisdiction. Behnam also puts ether on that list, noting
    Wednesday that the non-security crypto tokens make up "easily 50% – if not
    more – of the marketplace."LegislationSince FTX, U.S. lawmakers have pursued
    legislation to give the CFTC jurisdiction over direct, cash markets, but those
    crypto market-structure bills still await action. One of them was approved by
    committees in the House of Representatives and would need a vote from the
    overall chamber, but the Republican-led effort so far lacks support in the
    Democrat-controlled Senate."There's obviously a lot going on in Congress these
    days," Behnam said. "These bills have been caught, I think a little bit in a
    holding pattern."Crypto lobbyists had hoped that crypto bills – also including
    one that would set up U.S. guardrails for stablecoin issuers – would get a
    House floor vote before the end of the year. But Congress has largely been
    occupied with keeping the federal government open as lawmakers hash out spending
    bills, and the House was recently sidetracked after Republicans ousted former
    Speaker of the House Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.) and replaced him with Rep. Mike
    Johnson (R-La.).Prediction marketsThe CFTC chief also addressed his agency's
    court fight with prediction market Kalshi over political-outcomes betting. His
    agency has opposed Kalshi's election contracts and was taken to court over that
    decision, depending in part on deciding whether there's societal value in
    hedging political risk by being able to engage in contracts that pay if – for
    instance – a certain person or party is elected."If there are allegations of
    fraud or manipulation in an election – whether it's a local district in Iowa,
    or any other state – you can imagine we then become an election cop," said
    Behnam. "If there's a listed futures or unlisted derivative on an election and
    there's an allegation of fraud in that election, that fraud would presumably
    have affected the price revaluation of the listed future."He said he doesn't
    want the CFTC to have to assume that role in U.S. elections.Read More: Crypto's
    Bromance With U.S. CFTC May Be One-SidedEdited by Nikhilesh De.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2023/11/16/cardano-dogecoin-lead-price-gains-among-major-cryptocurrencies-as-bitcoin-nears-38k/
    The latest crypto market spurt added 4.6% to overall capitalization in the past
    24 hours, taking the total to $1.44 trillion, levels not seen since May 2022.
    Bitcoin (BTC) and several altcoins returned to the highs they tested a week ago,
    reversing nearly all losses from a $300 million liquidation event on
    Tuesday.Cardano’s ADA and dogecoin (DOGE) led gains among the top 10 tokens by
    market capitalization, surging as much as 12% without any immediate catalysts.
    Liquidations on the futures tracking these majors were lower than usual,
    suggesting the price action was primarily driven by spot buying. The CoinDesk
    Market Index, a market capitalization-weighted measure of the digital asset
    market, rose 3.8%.Solana’s SOL climbed to as high as $67, extending a
    week-long ascent amid a favorable view of the blockchain and waning concerns of
    an impending FTX sale of the token that would release more SOL into the
    market.Avalanche’s AVAX jumped 24% as developer Ava Labs said it was working
    with banking giant JPMorgan on an upcoming portfolio management product offered
    in Singapore.Some traders pointed out that gains in the market mirrored those of
    traditional assets such as stocks, even as recent price movements suggested
    early signs of decoupling.“Once again, the dynamics of crypto and equity
    markets have diverged,” FxPro markets analyst Alex Kuptsikevich said in a note
    to CoinDesk. “However, it should be noted that this seemingly negative
    correlation only works in the short term, as both asset classes have been rising
    steadily since October.”Kuptsikevich said that bitcoin bulls were “not
    giving up” as the price tested the $38,000 level again on Thursday, adding the
    move that likely “opened the way to $46,000.”Edited by Sheldon Reback.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2023/11/16/bitcoin-ordinals-token-ecosystem-emerges-as-latest-crypto-play-led-by-ordi-hype/
    Tokens based on the Bitcoin blockchain are emerging as the newest play among
    market participants after weeks of a bitcoin (BTC) price frenzy driven by
    expectations of an exchange-traded fund approval.The BRC-20 category of tokens
    has added some 21% as a sector in the past 24 hours. Infrastructure token trac
    (TRAC) rose 93% to lead the gains, followed by meme (MEME) at 69% and nals
    (NALS) at 36%.The BRC-20 standard (BRC stands for Bitcoin Request for Comment)
    was introduced in April to allow users to issue transferable tokens directly
    through the network for the first time. The tokens, called inscriptions,
    function on the Ordinals Protocol. That protocol allows users to embed data into
    the Bitcoin blockchain by inscribing references to digital art into small
    bitcoin-based transactions.Earlier this month, ordi (ORDI), a token tied to the
    Ordinals Protocol, was listed on influential exchange Binance, fueling a 50%
    price jump within hours. That helped spur bullish sentiment for BRC-20 tokens
    among traders, who hypothesized the Bitcoin token ecosystem could be a new
    avenue to search for profits.Data from Ordinals tracker OrdSpace shows over
    37,000 BRC-20 tokens exist as of Thursday.Some of the top BRC-20 tokens.
    (OrdSpace)Meanwhile, some popular social applications built on Bitcoin have
    started to introduce in-game tokens as part of attracting new users and boosting
    revenues.Alpha, an application that lets X (formerly Twitter) personalities
    issue ‘keys’ on its app for access to a closed group chat, started to allow
    users to offer their own tokens to users on Wednesday.These in-app tokens are
    designed to be cheaper than ‘keys,’ allowing their holders to participate in
    community games and lottery wheels. Alpha calls itself a “super app,”
    offering users a decentralized exchange, an NFT marketplace and a gaming
    store.Alpha developer @punk3700 previously told CoinDesk that bitcoin’s usage
    in DeFi applications has so far been limited to tokenized representations of
    bitcoin on other chains, such as Ethereum or Solana, but that Alpha’s
    developers believed a gap remained for wealthy bitcoin holders to use their
    assets on interactive applications.Edited by Sheldon Reback.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2023/11/15/intents-are-blockchains-big-new-buzzword-what-are-they-and-what-are-the-risks/
    A quiet revolution is underway transforming how we use blockchains, and at its
    core is one of crypto's latest buzzwords: "intents."Simply defined, an intent is
    a specific goal a blockchain user wants to accomplish. While no two
    "intent-centric" systems are the same, they all work similarly: users, be they
    traders or protocols, submit their intent to a service, and then it is
    outsourced to a "solver" – it could be a person, or an AI bot, or another
    protocol – that does whatever it takes to get the job done.These are becoming
    important now because blockchains are expanding so rapidly. With Bitcoin,
    Ethereum, a host of alternative layer-1 networks, layer-2 networks, and now even
    layer-3 networks proliferating, accompanied by myriad "bridges" and other
    "interoperability" solutions connecting them all, it's all becoming more
    daunting to navigate.As the crypto market has matured, "the number of
    possibilities that you can do on blockchains has compounded," Arjun Bhuptani of
    Connext, an interoperability protocol, explained. "You have an infinite possible
    way of doing a transaction at a given time."This article is featured in the
    latest issue of The Protocol, our weekly newsletter exploring the tech behind
    crypto, one block at a time. Sign up here to get it in your inbox every
    Wednesday.Newer intent-centric services promise to find users the best way to
    get things done – allowing them to maximize trading profits and save on gas
    fees, among other benefits.But with the advantages of these platforms come
    risks, and some observers are already ringing alarm bells: While we might
    welcome the help of third-party solvers to take care of our blockchain busy
    work, new services could give rise to a new breed of monopolists.Understanding
    intentsBlockchains can be thought of as massive, global computers.
    Traditionally, users provide detailed instructions (e.g., use Uniswap to swap
    token A for token B at a specific price), which the blockchain executes
    step-by-step.In the new world of intents, however, this model is flipped on its
    head. Users express what they want to get done (e.g., swap A for B at the best
    price) without specifying the how, letting the protocol manage the
    details.Consider the analogy of hailing a taxi. Traditional blockchain services
    are like giving the driver turn-by-turn directions, which can be tedious and
    costly if your route involves twists or hard-to-find shortcuts. With intents,
    all you need to do is provide the taxi driver with a destination, then sit back
    and trust your driver.A new wave of blockchains and protocols, including Anoma,
    Flashbots and CoW Swap, are already offering intent-centric services to crypto
    users. Users can submit a general goal to one of these services, like "swap
    these tokens for the best price," and have it handled by a third-party solver
    for a fee.How it all worksDifferent platforms apply different verbiage to the
    idea of 'intents,' but the general premise remains the same.Most intent-based
    protocols today start with some kind of "intent-discovery" system, a place
    "where users broadcast the things that they want," Bhuptani explained. In
    blockchain parlance, these discovery venues could be considered "mempools" –
    waiting areas for yet-to-be-processed transactions.An intent "could be something
    like, 'I have USDC, I want to figure out how to turn it into XYZ asset, and I
    want to do that on another chain or in some specific way,'" said Buhptani.
    "There's no limitation as to the complexity of the intent that one could
    express.""Then you have a marketplace of solvers," Bhuptani continued. Solvers
    "listen" for intents, and they fulfill them if the price is right. "These intent
    solvers are automated actors that are basically saying, 'Oh, a user wants to do
    XYZ?' Okay, let me do it on their behalf because I can earn some fees for it."At
    a high level, this might all sound familiar. Aren't we expressing an intent when
    we ask Coinbase to swap ether (ETH) for bitcoin (BTC), or if we instruct an
    exchange aggregator like 1inch to sell our Solana tokens to whatever market
    features the highest price? Well, yes. "Intents," like so much else in the world
    of crypto, are a fancy way of describing a phenomenon that already exists.The
    trick with intents in 2023 – and the reason why the term has picked up steam
    in the past year – is due to the number of services, new and old, that are
    trying to squeeze user-friendly intents into boxes that conform to crypto's
    decentralized ethos, and can be dragged and dropped into virtually any
    use-case.Most new intent-based protocols "decentralize" their systems by
    outsourcing to a network of solvers that compete to fill user requests for the
    best possible price. This competitive system is meant to ensure that no central
    third party is tasked with satisfying all user needs.Intents in
    actionIntent-centric systems are already live for a variety of use
    cases.Bhuptani's Connext protocol uses intents to shepherd transactions between
    different blockchains. Users can express the intent to transfer a token from one
    chain to another, for instance, and a network of solvers will find the optimal
    route.Anoma, the protocol that popularized the concept of blockchain-based
    intents, offers what it calls, simply, "intent-centric infrastructure." In basic
    terms, Anoma's infrastructure is designed to extend intent-centric functionality
    to virtually any use case, helping other services match intents to a network of
    solvers.SUAVE, an upcoming blockchain from the maximal extractable value
    (MEV)-focused infrastructure firm Flashbots, is one of the most talked-about
    services designed around a version of intents, which it calls "preferences."
    When SUAVE launches, users will be able to submit "preferences" to a competitive
    market of network operators that bid against one another to fill them. The
    system is built to help to balance user priorities with MEV.The risk of
    rent-seekersWhile intent-centric services offer a wide array of user experience
    benefits, one need only look to the taxi analogy to see where the systems can go
    wrong.Providing detailed directions for all of our taxi rides, akin to the
    traditional model of specifying every step in a blockchain transaction, would be
    burdensome and error-prone.But there's also a problem with the "trust the
    driver" approach that more closely resembles intent-centric systems: We've all
    had the experience of hopping into a taxi in an unfamiliar city for what we
    expect to be a quick ride, only to sit awkwardly as our driver takes a
    suspiciously long route, running up the meter.The taxi driver in this analogy is
    like the solver in an intent-centric system: trusting the solver to take care of
    a task means trusting them to execute it honestly.Intent-centric programs
    typically have systems in place to keep solvers honest, meaning a more apt
    analogy might be to Uber, which keeps drivers in check with its up-front pricing
    and in-app routing. But ride-sharing apps only further underscore the risk of
    intent-based systems: anyone who has experienced the rising prices of Ubers in
    recent years has seen firsthand how convenience can entrench big players at the
    expense of end users. The real risk with intent-centric systems isn't just
    dishonesty, but the potential for new monopolies.Paradigm, a prominent
    blockchain investor and researcher, highlighted these risks in a blog post:
    "While intents are an exciting new paradigm for transacting, their widespread
    adoption may imply an acceleration of a larger trend of user activity shifting
    to alternative mempools," wrote Paradigm’s researchers. "If improperly
    managed, this shift risks centralization and entrenchment of rent-seeking
    middlemen."As we become more comfortable relying on these third parties to
    satisfy user intents, it is possible that these companies will begin to act in
    their own self-interest – either by charging higher fees (e.g., Uber) or by
    filling orders in a manner that serves them instead of users.Although most
    intent-centric services outsource to a competitive market of solvers –
    ostensibly as a way to avoid centralization – there's still the potential that
    some companies might dominate the space.For instance, one could imagine a crypto
    exchange building solvers to dominate the "buy" and "sell" use-case –
    effectively driving all market activity to its own book. The exchange could
    subsidize its fees at first as a way to edge out competitors, only to hike up
    its prices once it has taken over the marketplace.In the best case, intent-based
    models can usher in a new wave of blockchain-based systems that save time and
    money for users – making the technology more accessible to more users. But
    realizing this future will require proceeding with care.Edited by Bradley Keoun.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/podcasts/markets-daily/crypto-update-crypto-acts-contrary-to-macro-markets/
    Today's episode is sponsored by CME Group and PayPal.To get the show every day,
    follow the podcast here.Today’s Stories:JPMorgan, Apollo Tokenize Funds in
    'Proof of Concept' With Axelar, Oasis, ProvenanceCrypto Market Sees Net Capital
    Inflow for First Time in 17 MonthsStablecoin Issuer Paxos Plans New U.S.
    Dollar-Backed Token for Singapore OperationsFrom our sponsors:CME Group
    Cryptocurrency futures and options provide market-leading liquidity for bitcoin
    and ether trading. These cash-settled contracts give full exposure to crypto
    performance without the hassle of holding the physical position. No digital
    wallet? No problem. Trade nearly 24/7 in a transparent, CFTC-regulated market.
    Visit cmegroup.com/crypto to learn more.Disclaimer:This communication is not
    directed to investors located in any particular jurisdiction and is not intended
    to be accessed by recipients based in jurisdictions in which distribution is not
    permitted. The information herein should not be considered investment advice or
    the results of actual market experience. Past results are not necessarily
    indicative of future performance. Trading derivatives products involves the risk
    of loss. Please consider carefully whether futures or options are appropriate to
    your financial situation.-PYUSD, a stablecoin made for Payments. 1USD =
    1PYUSD.Introducing PayPal’s new digital currency, PayPal USD (PYUSD), a
    stablecoin backed by U.S. dollar deposits, U.S. Treasuries and similar cash
    equivalents. Buy, sell, hold and transfer it in our app or site and explore Web3
    with a payments brand that has been trusted for over 20 years.Get started now at
    paypal.com/pyusd.This episode was hosted by Noelle Acheson. “Markets Daily”
    is executive produced by Jared Schwartz and produced and edited by Eleanor Pahl.
    All original music by Doc Blust and Colin Mealey.Audio Transcript: This
    transcript has not been edited and may contain errors.It’s Thursday, November
    16th, 2023 and this is Markets Daily from CoinDesk. My name is Noelle Acheson,
    CoinDesk collaborator and author of the Crypto is Macro Now newsletter on
    Substack. On today’s show we’re talking about market moves, stablecoins,
    rate expectations and more. So you don’t miss an episode, be sure to follow
    the podcast on your platform of choice, and turn on notifications. And just a
    reminder, CoinDesk is a news source and does not provide investment advice.Now,
    a markets roundup.Crypto markets seem to be feeling quite contrary. On Tuesday,
    markets were celebrating the good news of lower U.S. inflation, and yet bitcoin
    headed downward. Yesterday, markets were more uncertain given the retail sales
    data, and yet bitcoin went up. According to CoinDesk Indices, at 9 a.m. Eastern
    time this morning, bitcoin was up 2% over the past 24 hours, trading at 36,857
    dollars. Ether was up 1 percent, trading at 2,038 dollars.The main driver for
    the two largest crypto assets by market cap seems to still be ETF speculation.
    Yesterday, the SEC formally announced a delay on the decision on whether or not
    to approve the Hashdex bitcoin spot ETF proposal, ahead of the deadline on
    Friday.Bitcoin’s positive performance could be from relief that it was a delay
    and not a denial. It could also be a natural correction of the previous day’s
    slump. Whatever the reason, bitcoin late yesterday came close to reaching
    $38,000, more than 8% higher than its low point on Tuesday.Elsewhere, Dogecoin
    and Cardano were up more than 5%. AVAX was up over 19%, possibly propelled by
    the announcement yesterday that JPMorgan and Apollo are experimenting with fund
    tokenization on Avalanche.In macro indicators, the flood of economic data
    continues, but today I want to focus on interest rate expectations. Over the
    past couple of days we saw how inflation pressures continue to ease in the U.S.,
    and how retail spending is also slowing down, although more slowly than
    expected. We talked about this on Tuesday’s and yesterday’s episodes, if you
    want to check them out. CME futures suggest that traders are pricing in a less
    than 1% probability of another rate hike, and a more than 60% probability that
    the first cut will come in or before May.And although U.S. yields climbed
    yesterday, at 4.48% the 10-year yield is still more than 50 basis points below
    where it was less than a month ago. This is not helping the Federal Reserve.
    Remember how Fed officials were saying just a few weeks ago how higher yields
    could make more raises unnecessary? Obviously a drop in yields means that a
    raise could be back on the table.So, Federal Reserve officials are now out in
    force reminding the market of this, that the hiking cycle is not necessarily
    over, and that cuts are unlikely any time soon. Yesterday, San Francisco Fed
    President Mary Daly told the Financial Times that the recent inflation data was
    very, very encouraging, her words, but that another rate hike is still possible.
    Richmond Fed President Thomas Barkin gave a similar message at an event. And for
    today, I counted at least eight separate public appearances with remarks from
    Fed officials, who will most likely reiterate the same message.The Fed seems to
    want the market to temper its expectations, as stock market excitement and lower
    bond yields together could be inflationary. Bond prices move inversely to bond
    yields, and when bond and stock prices are up, investors tend to feel wealthier
    and so could spend more, keeping inflation high.Will the market listen to the
    Fed? Eventually it will have to, and the sentiment adjustment could end up being
    painful.In stocks, yesterday the main U.S. indices were up but muted due to the
    lower-than-expected drop in retail sales. The S&P 500 gained almost two tenths
    of a percent, the Nasdaq was flat, and the Dow Jones rose almost half a percent.
    Today, futures point to a soft opening as today’s economic releases are
    raising recession concerns. U.S. jobless claims came in higher than expected,
    while import and export prices fell by more than most economists had been
    forecasting.In Europe, the FTSE 100 rose by six tenths of a percent yesterday,
    as U.K. inflation for October came in lower than expected. The German DAX closed
    nine tenths higher, and the Eurostoxx 600 index climbed four tenths of a
    percent. Today, markets are looking mixed, with the UK’s leading index down
    half a percent, and the DAX index up a similar amount.In Asia, sentiment was
    weak today. Japan’s Nikkei index fell three tenths of a percent, China’s
    Shanghai Composite dropped seven tenths, and the Hang Seng lost 1.4%.In
    commodities, oil fell yesterday for the first time in five sessions after a
    report from the Energy Information Administration showed that U.S. crude
    inventories have been increasing and are now the highest since August. The Brent
    Crude benchmark lost around 1% yesterday, and this morning was down a further
    half a percent, to trade at around 81 dollars and 13 cents a barrel.Gold was
    trading rangebound for most of the past 24 hours, but jumped on the latest set
    of U.S. economic data points out this morning. Earlier today, it was up almost
    seven tenths of a percent, trading at 1,972 dollars per ounce.Stay with us –
    after the break we’re going to talk about a key metric for stablecoins that
    carries a hopeful message.Welcome back!In this section, we’re going to look at
    stablecoins and what they say about market liquidity.Yesterday, CoinDesk’s
    Omkar Godbole reported that the 90-day net change in the total supply of the top
    four stablecoins had turned positive for the first time in 17 months. The last
    time this metric was positive was in May 2022, which was when the Terra/Luna
    stablecoin ecosystem collapsed. That was a painful month that triggered what
    would end up being a cascade of business failures, dropping prices and an
    institutional stampede for the exit.Total stablecoin market cap can be taken as
    a heuristic for market liquidity since stablecoins form the base of most crypto
    trades. Supply going up suggests more market participants are getting ready to
    trade, use DeFi applications or buy NFTs. Supply going down suggests an exit
    from the market altogether.As of this morning, the total supply of dollar-pegged
    stablecoins is over 120 billion dollars. This may sound like a lot, but just
    before the Terra collapse in May of last year, it was almost 180 billion, which
    gives you an idea of how much capital has left the crypto market since then. A
    sign that capital is tentatively coming back is very good news.Meanwhile, the
    stablecoin ecosystem continues to grow. Yesterday we heard that stablecoin
    issuer Paxos got a license to issue dollar-backed tokens in Singapore. The Asian
    market tends to largely use Tether, for convenience and liquidity, so it remains
    to be seen whether a Paxos-issued stablecoin will make an impact. But some
    institutions could end up preferring a regulated version, for compliance
    reasons. And, Paxos’ license could end up being instrumental in the creation
    of more enterprise-specific stablecoins, which would suggest an evolution of the
    use case and the technology at a time when the discussion around central bank
    digital currencies is getting more intense.So, the indication that stablecoin
    supply has bottomed is indeed a good sign that investor interest is picking up.
    And the development of stablecoin issuers is worth watching.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2023/11/15/solanas-sol-jumps-20-as-investors-turn-bullish-fears-of-ftx-sales-wane/
    Solana’s SOL jumped nearly 20% in 24 hours to lead the charge among crypto
    majors in an otherwise range-bound market.SOL crossed $63, reaching a level
    previously seen in May 2022. Daily trading volumes also spiked to over $3.5
    billion, up more than 70% from average levels of $2 billion at the start of
    November.While there was no immediate catalyst for Wednesday’s bump, optimism
    around Solana has recently bumped after the end of Sam Bankman-Fried’s trial.
    Bankman-Fried was a prominent backer of Solana and acquired over $1 billion
    worth of the tokens through his companies Alameda Research and FTX.SOL prices
    took a drastic hit in November 2022 after a CoinDesk report first drew light to
    possible cracks in Bankman-Fried’s empire, but sentiment has recovered since
    the once-crypto titan was jailed and pronounced guilty on seven charges.
    Meanwhile, wallets linked to the bankrupt crypto exchange FTX, controlled by the
    debtors group, have an estimated $102 million in SOL tokens to crypto exchanges
    in the past few months. Moving to exchanges may likely indicate a sale of those
    tokens on the open market, however, SOL prices have continued to grow.Some
    market watchers have hypothesized that the FTX estate may soon run out of SOL,
    citing data from the on-chain analytics tool SponOnChain.Data suggests
    institutional investments into SOL tokens may have picked up in the past weeks.
    Last week, shares of the Grayscale Solana Trust (GSOL) hit a premium of nearly
    900% to the spot SOL held in each share – indicative of rampant demand for the
    token among regulated funds.Elsewhere, ARK Invest CEO Cathie Wood said in a CNBC
    interview on Tuesday that Solana was possibly a better bet than Ethereum, the
    world’s most used blockchain, in terms of technical capabilities."Ether was
    faster and cheaper than bitcoin," Wood said. "Solana is even faster and
    cost-effective than Ether."Edited by Parikshit Mishra.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/podcasts/markets-daily/crypto-update-crypto-acts-contrary-to-macro-markets/
    Today's episode is sponsored by CME Group and PayPal.To get the show every day,
    follow the podcast here.Today’s Stories:JPMorgan, Apollo Tokenize Funds in
    'Proof of Concept' With Axelar, Oasis, ProvenanceCrypto Market Sees Net Capital
    Inflow for First Time in 17 MonthsStablecoin Issuer Paxos Plans New U.S.
    Dollar-Backed Token for Singapore OperationsFrom our sponsors:CME Group
    Cryptocurrency futures and options provide market-leading liquidity for bitcoin
    and ether trading. These cash-settled contracts give full exposure to crypto
    performance without the hassle of holding the physical position. No digital
    wallet? No problem. Trade nearly 24/7 in a transparent, CFTC-regulated market.
    Visit cmegroup.com/crypto to learn more.Disclaimer:This communication is not
    directed to investors located in any particular jurisdiction and is not intended
    to be accessed by recipients based in jurisdictions in which distribution is not
    permitted. The information herein should not be considered investment advice or
    the results of actual market experience. Past results are not necessarily
    indicative of future performance. Trading derivatives products involves the risk
    of loss. Please consider carefully whether futures or options are appropriate to
    your financial situation.-PYUSD, a stablecoin made for Payments. 1USD =
    1PYUSD.Introducing PayPal’s new digital currency, PayPal USD (PYUSD), a
    stablecoin backed by U.S. dollar deposits, U.S. Treasuries and similar cash
    equivalents. Buy, sell, hold and transfer it in our app or site and explore Web3
    with a payments brand that has been trusted for over 20 years.Get started now at
    paypal.com/pyusd.This episode was hosted by Noelle Acheson. “Markets Daily”
    is executive produced by Jared Schwartz and produced and edited by Eleanor Pahl.
    All original music by Doc Blust and Colin Mealey.Audio Transcript: This
    transcript has not been edited and may contain errors.It’s Thursday, November
    16th, 2023 and this is Markets Daily from CoinDesk. My name is Noelle Acheson,
    CoinDesk collaborator and author of the Crypto is Macro Now newsletter on
    Substack. On today’s show we’re talking about market moves, stablecoins,
    rate expectations and more. So you don’t miss an episode, be sure to follow
    the podcast on your platform of choice, and turn on notifications. And just a
    reminder, CoinDesk is a news source and does not provide investment advice.Now,
    a markets roundup.Crypto markets seem to be feeling quite contrary. On Tuesday,
    markets were celebrating the good news of lower U.S. inflation, and yet bitcoin
    headed downward. Yesterday, markets were more uncertain given the retail sales
    data, and yet bitcoin went up. According to CoinDesk Indices, at 9 a.m. Eastern
    time this morning, bitcoin was up 2% over the past 24 hours, trading at 36,857
    dollars. Ether was up 1 percent, trading at 2,038 dollars.The main driver for
    the two largest crypto assets by market cap seems to still be ETF speculation.
    Yesterday, the SEC formally announced a delay on the decision on whether or not
    to approve the Hashdex bitcoin spot ETF proposal, ahead of the deadline on
    Friday.Bitcoin’s positive performance could be from relief that it was a delay
    and not a denial. It could also be a natural correction of the previous day’s
    slump. Whatever the reason, bitcoin late yesterday came close to reaching
    $38,000, more than 8% higher than its low point on Tuesday.Elsewhere, Dogecoin
    and Cardano were up more than 5%. AVAX was up over 19%, possibly propelled by
    the announcement yesterday that JPMorgan and Apollo are experimenting with fund
    tokenization on Avalanche.In macro indicators, the flood of economic data
    continues, but today I want to focus on interest rate expectations. Over the
    past couple of days we saw how inflation pressures continue to ease in the U.S.,
    and how retail spending is also slowing down, although more slowly than
    expected. We talked about this on Tuesday’s and yesterday’s episodes, if you
    want to check them out. CME futures suggest that traders are pricing in a less
    than 1% probability of another rate hike, and a more than 60% probability that
    the first cut will come in or before May.And although U.S. yields climbed
    yesterday, at 4.48% the 10-year yield is still more than 50 basis points below
    where it was less than a month ago. This is not helping the Federal Reserve.
    Remember how Fed officials were saying just a few weeks ago how higher yields
    could make more raises unnecessary? Obviously a drop in yields means that a
    raise could be back on the table.So, Federal Reserve officials are now out in
    force reminding the market of this, that the hiking cycle is not necessarily
    over, and that cuts are unlikely any time soon. Yesterday, San Francisco Fed
    President Mary Daly told the Financial Times that the recent inflation data was
    very, very encouraging, her words, but that another rate hike is still possible.
    Richmond Fed President Thomas Barkin gave a similar message at an event. And for
    today, I counted at least eight separate public appearances with remarks from
    Fed officials, who will most likely reiterate the same message.The Fed seems to
    want the market to temper its expectations, as stock market excitement and lower
    bond yields together could be inflationary. Bond prices move inversely to bond
    yields, and when bond and stock prices are up, investors tend to feel wealthier
    and so could spend more, keeping inflation high.Will the market listen to the
    Fed? Eventually it will have to, and the sentiment adjustment could end up being
    painful.In stocks, yesterday the main U.S. indices were up but muted due to the
    lower-than-expected drop in retail sales. The S&P 500 gained almost two tenths
    of a percent, the Nasdaq was flat, and the Dow Jones rose almost half a percent.
    Today, futures point to a soft opening as today’s economic releases are
    raising recession concerns. U.S. jobless claims came in higher than expected,
    while import and export prices fell by more than most economists had been
    forecasting.In Europe, the FTSE 100 rose by six tenths of a percent yesterday,
    as U.K. inflation for October came in lower than expected. The German DAX closed
    nine tenths higher, and the Eurostoxx 600 index climbed four tenths of a
    percent. Today, markets are looking mixed, with the UK’s leading index down
    half a percent, and the DAX index up a similar amount.In Asia, sentiment was
    weak today. Japan’s Nikkei index fell three tenths of a percent, China’s
    Shanghai Composite dropped seven tenths, and the Hang Seng lost 1.4%.In
    commodities, oil fell yesterday for the first time in five sessions after a
    report from the Energy Information Administration showed that U.S. crude
    inventories have been increasing and are now the highest since August. The Brent
    Crude benchmark lost around 1% yesterday, and this morning was down a further
    half a percent, to trade at around 81 dollars and 13 cents a barrel.Gold was
    trading rangebound for most of the past 24 hours, but jumped on the latest set
    of U.S. economic data points out this morning. Earlier today, it was up almost
    seven tenths of a percent, trading at 1,972 dollars per ounce.Stay with us –
    after the break we’re going to talk about a key metric for stablecoins that
    carries a hopeful message.Welcome back!In this section, we’re going to look at
    stablecoins and what they say about market liquidity.Yesterday, CoinDesk’s
    Omkar Godbole reported that the 90-day net change in the total supply of the top
    four stablecoins had turned positive for the first time in 17 months. The last
    time this metric was positive was in May 2022, which was when the Terra/Luna
    stablecoin ecosystem collapsed. That was a painful month that triggered what
    would end up being a cascade of business failures, dropping prices and an
    institutional stampede for the exit.Total stablecoin market cap can be taken as
    a heuristic for market liquidity since stablecoins form the base of most crypto
    trades. Supply going up suggests more market participants are getting ready to
    trade, use DeFi applications or buy NFTs. Supply going down suggests an exit
    from the market altogether.As of this morning, the total supply of dollar-pegged
    stablecoins is over 120 billion dollars. This may sound like a lot, but just
    before the Terra collapse in May of last year, it was almost 180 billion, which
    gives you an idea of how much capital has left the crypto market since then. A
    sign that capital is tentatively coming back is very good news.Meanwhile, the
    stablecoin ecosystem continues to grow. Yesterday we heard that stablecoin
    issuer Paxos got a license to issue dollar-backed tokens in Singapore. The Asian
    market tends to largely use Tether, for convenience and liquidity, so it remains
    to be seen whether a Paxos-issued stablecoin will make an impact. But some
    institutions could end up preferring a regulated version, for compliance
    reasons. And, Paxos’ license could end up being instrumental in the creation
    of more enterprise-specific stablecoins, which would suggest an evolution of the
    use case and the technology at a time when the discussion around central bank
    digital currencies is getting more intense.So, the indication that stablecoin
    supply has bottomed is indeed a good sign that investor interest is picking up.
    And the development of stablecoin issuers is worth watching.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2023/11/14/xrp-futures-traders-nurse-7m-loss-as-blackrock-etf-rumor-causes-wild-price-swings/
    Traders invested in XRP futures lost some $7.26 million in the past 24 hours as
    prices moved wildly following rumors of a BlackRock (BLK) exchange-traded fund
    (ETF) filing.The liquidations were fourth behind those of bitcoin (BTC), ether
    (ETH) and Solana’s SOL futures, data shows.XRP prices jumped to 73 cents from
    65 cents in 25 minutes after a tweet that suggested financial behemoth BlackRock
    had filed for an XRP ETF in the U.S. state of Delaware. Reputed crypto news
    firms reported on the filing as fact, which also helped amplify prices.However,
    the filing turned out to be fake: Someone had likely filed out an elaborate form
    using a BlackRock executive’s alias and effectively replicated an actual
    online filing. This caused prices to quickly tumble back to previous levels.But
    leveraged traders had already piled on their traders by then. Data shows that
    over 75% of traders from the total XRP liquidations were longs, or bets on
    higher prices, meaning those traders placed nearly $5 million in orders in that
    short time span without confirming the authenticity of the filing.Most of these
    trades were placed on crypto exchange Binance and Bybit, data shows, with
    position sizes ranging from a few thousand to over $200,000.Liquidation refers
    to when an exchange forcefully closes a trader’s leveraged position due to a
    partial or total loss of the trader’s initial margin. It happens when a trader
    is unable to meet the margin requirements for a leveraged position (fails to
    have sufficient funds to keep the trade open).Edited by Parikshit Mishra.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2023/11/13/grok-token-inspired-by-elon-musks-grok-ai-hits-160m-capitalization-in-latest-frenzy/
    A token inspired by Grok AI, an artificial intelligence service by Elon
    Musk-owned social app X, has zoomed to a $160 million market capitalization just
    eight days after release – joining a series of speculative frenzies this year
    that has ranged from frog-themed tokens to hamster racing.Prices of Grok (GROK)
    have more than doubled in the past 24 hours, according to DEXTools, extending a
    week-long rally to 13,000% – a move that turned every $100 invested into
    $13,100.The GROK token has 11,000 holders and saw $25 million in trading volumes
    in the past 24 hours. This particular token was the first of scores of other
    GROK tokens created by developers across several blockchains – most have
    apparently either rugpulled or failed to gain in value after issuance.Top GROK
    holders are sitting on $2.1 million to over $6 million in unrealized profits, as
    per DEXTools data. However, available liquidity for the GROK-USD pair is just
    $3.5 million as of Monday, meaning a single large sell could completely topple
    the rise.Grok, an AI chatbot service by social application X started to roll out
    last Saturday. Previews show the service is relatively more uncensored – and
    humorous – than existing players, which has seemingly helped it quickly gain a
    cult following.Anyone can call a smart contract and issue tokens on Ethereum (or
    other blockchains) for a few cents, and the presence of decentralized exchanges
    means tokens can instantly be issued, supplied with liquidity and traded soon
    after.All grok tokens are unrelated to and unaffiliated with the actual Grok AI
    service.CORRECTION (Nov. 13, 2023, 15:45 UTC): Fixes figure on returns in second
    paragraph.Edited by Oliver Knight.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2023/10/25/bitcoin-hovers-over-34k-as-blackrock-ibtc-ticker-euphoria-fades-out/
    Rapid gains in bitcoin (BTC) prices seemed to pause Wednesday morning as traders
    likely took profits on a week-long rally, bumping bitcoin prices as much as 25%
    on hopes of a spot exchange-traded fund (ETF) approval in the U.S.Major tokens
    showed mixed movement as Cardano’s ADA slipped 2%, while Solana’s SOL tokens
    added 3%, extending a week-long rally to nearly 30%. Growth in SOL tokens came
    as traders downplayed fears of a looming sell-off by the FTX bankruptcy
    estate.The CoinDesk Market Index (CMI), a broad-based tracker of hundreds of
    tokens, rose 0.42%, suggesting slight gains across the overall market.Meanwhile,
    some traders said signs of institutional adoption may be an indication of the
    end of ‘crypto winter’ – a colloquial term for a bear market characterized
    by lower prices and little venture capital investments.“What we are
    potentially seeing is a permanent thawing of so-called ‘crypto winters.’
    While the digital asset market will always have bulls and bears, institutional
    adoption is pushing us closer to perpetual spring,” shared Diogo Mónica,
    co-founder at Anchorage Digital, referring to the many spot ETF
    applications.“Between recent price action and movement toward spot Bitcoin ETF
    approval, the long-term outlook for Bitcoin is the most promising it has been in
    recent memory—and institutions are just getting started,” Mónica
    added.Elsewhere, crypto trading firm QCP Capital said in a Telegram broadcast
    that the anticipation of a spot bitcoin ETF was currently driving outsized
    demand for the asset.“Steps taken by Blackrock, including a DTCC listing and
    tickerization (IBTC), gave the market hope that the SEC approval is imminent,”
    QCP said. “However, we do not think that this signals an impending SEC
    decision in the coming week.”“Instead, we believe the SEC will avoid playing
    the role of kingmaker, sticking with its own precedent set during the BTC/ETH
    futures ETF approval process and will wait to approve multiple managers at the
    same time,” the firm opined.Edited by Parikshit Mishra.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2023/10/20/solana-rallies-26-in-a-week-despite-ftx-sale-fears-whats-behind-the-move/
    Solana jumped 11% Friday and is one of the best performing crypto assets this
    year with a 170% gain.Investor worries about FTX selling tokens were overblown,
    an IntoTheBlock analyst noted.Rising activity on the Solana network, massive
    influx into digital asset funds and a recent tech upgrade also likely
    contributed to the rally.Solana (SOL) is higher by another 11% on Friday,
    continuing to outperform the rest of the crypto market and defying worries of a
    potential fire sale by bankrupt crypto exchange FTX.With today’s advance, the
    cryptocurrency is now higher by more than 26% this week, CoinDesk data shows.
    Crypto leaders bitcoin (BTC) and ether (ETH) were ahead by 10% and 3%,
    respectively, over the same time frame. The broad crypto market-proxy CoinDesk
    Market Index (CMI) advanced 8%."This is some of the strongest buying activity
    we’ve seen since July," David Shuttleworth, research partner at Anagram and
    former managing director at Binance Labs, told CoinDesk.Why has SOL’s price
    rallied?Friday's gain adds to SOL's remarkable comeback as one of the
    best-performing digital assets this year with a 170% year-to-date rise. This
    after Solana’s future was in doubt at the end of 2022 following the
    spectacular fall of Sam Bankman-Fried – one of the ecosystem’s top
    supporters and investors.Additionally, a U.S. bankruptcy court last month
    granted the FTX-Alameda estate permission to liquidate its massive crypto
    holdings, which included a $1.16 billion solana stash as of late August,
    spurring fears about SOL tokens being dumped en masse on the market."The Alameda
    FUD turned out to be less severe than anticipated," IntoTheBlock head of
    research Lucas Outumuro told CoinDesk.Last week, the FTX estate staked, or
    locked up roughly 5.5 million SOL worth $122 million at the time, easing
    investor sentiment.Outumuro also noted SOL's technical breakout against ETH,
    which could have contributed to the rally.SOL breakout versus ETH (IntoTheBlock,
    TradingView)Investors, meanwhile, have flocked to Solana-focused funds, asset
    manager CoinShares reported, with $24 million of net inflows last week. It was
    the largest weekly influx since March 2022, as SOL continued to "assert itself
    as the altcoin of choice," CoinShares head of research James Butterfill said.The
    Solana blockchain enjoyed increasing network activity over the past weeks,
    digital asset manager 21Shares researchers noted Thursday, in a report citing
    blockchain data by The Block.Active addresses on the Solana network (The
    Block)The analysis also noted that Solana recently activated a tech upgrade that
    reduced validator hardware requirements, and added optional
    zero-knowledge-compatible encryption for transactions."Solana's recent surge in
    inflows, coupled with a consistent rise in daily active users for four
    consecutive weeks, underscores the enthusiasm for this overlooked upgrade,"
    21Shares analysts said.Edited by Stephen Alpher.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2023/10/12/bitcoin-drops-below-27k-ether-stable-as-jim-cramer-pokes-bearish-calls/
    Bitcoin slipped just under 1% in the past 24 hours as bearish calls among
    analysts including Jim Cramer, a former hedge fund manager and host of CNBC’s
    Mad Money, grew. Overall market capitalization lost 0.3%.Ether (ETH) showed
    signs of stability around $1,500 with a 0.5% gain after a nearly weeklong slide.
    The token started to drop Monday after the influential Ethereum Foundation sold
    $2.7 million worth of ETH for stablecoins.XRP and BNB Chain’s bnb tokens fell
    0.4%, while Solana’s SOL dropped 1.4%. The only gainer among large-cap tokens
    was Chainlink’s LINK, which added 2.2% as one research firm noted it was
    likely the “safest bet” to profit from the emerging real-world asset (RWA)
    tokenization trend.The CoinDesk Market Index (CMI), a broad-based indicator made
    up of hundreds of tokens, fell 0.4% to suggest overall losses among investor
    holdings.Cramer joined an increasing cohort of bearish analysts Tuesday,
    suggesting bitcoin could “go down big.”Earlier this week, several traders
    told CoinDesk that they expected risky assets, such as bitcoin and technology
    stocks, to fall further as the conflict between Hamas and Israel worsened –
    prompting fears of global instability and a flight to safe assets.Edited by
    Sheldon Reback.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2023/10/13/bitcoin-is-currently-neither-bullish-or-bearish-traders-say/
    Crypto traders expect the approval of a spot bitcoin ETF to reinvigorate the
    markets.Major tokens, such as XRP, Solana's SOL, BNB Chain's BNB have stabilized
    after being in the red.Crypto markets seemed to stabilize in the past 24 hours
    following a nearly week-long drop as ongoing geopolitical conflicts seemed to
    weigh down on prices of riskier assets.Markets slumped since Monday as traders
    priced in rising oil prices and a drop in traditional equities as the turmoil
    could impact international trade, analysts told CoinDesk.Bitcoin hovered just
    over the $26,8000 mark after losing 3% in the past week, with ether (ETH) traded
    over $1,500 after a 5% weekly hit. Other major tokens stabilized after seeing
    some losses: XRP and Solana’s SOL had dumped as much as 8%, while BNB
    Chain’s BNB and dogecoin (DOGE) had performed slightly better with a 3%
    loss.Some analysts opined the current price action observed in bitcoin markets
    was not necessarily bullish or bearish, and pointed to an equilibrium among
    buyers and sellers instead.“Bitcoin has recently been in a building phase,
    neither particularly bullish nor bearish,” said Andy Bromberg, CEO of Beam
    told CoinDesk in an email. “At the moment, there's a balance, with few
    newcomers entering into Bitcoin and equally few exiting,”“This balance
    creates a relatively stable price. Significant movement is unlikely to happen
    until after some sort of catalyst, such as the halving or the introduction of
    spot ETFs,” Bromberg added.Traders are eagerly awaiting the approval of a spot
    bitcoin exchange-traded fund (ETF) in the U.S., expecting the offering to open
    the floodgates to broader institutional demand and an inflow of new
    money.Meanwhile, part of Friday’s stability in the bitcoin-led market may have
    come from confidence in the long-term “quality” asset after an initial
    sell-off scare.“After the exuberance of the last few years, we’ve seen a
    large flight to quality, both in terms of providers and assets,” said Dan
    O’Prey, Chief Product Officer of Bakkt in a note to CoinDesk. “Bitcoin,
    being the most decentralized and secure asset, has also benefited from flows
    from the riskier, long-tail coins.’Bobby Zagotta, US CEO of Bitstamp said that
    bitcoin would “continue to be the most established, understood and trusted
    cryptocurrency available for the foreseeable future,” adding that the
    exchange’s active trading clients continued to grow on a week-on-week
    basis.Edited by Parikshit Mishra.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2023/10/10/bitcoin-hovers-over-275k-crypto-bulls-face-100m-liquidations-as-altcoins-drop/
    The ongoing Hamas-Israel conflict and a significant ether (ETH) sale by the
    Ethereum Foundation weighed in on broader crypto markets as bulls saw over $100
    million in futures positions evaporated and the market slid 2% on
    average.Bitcoin (BTC) showed signs of stability relative to other tokens, losing
    1% in the past 24 hours and hovering above a key support level of $27,500 in
    Asian morning hours Tuesday. Among traders, riskier assets such as technology
    stocks and bitcoin are in focus amid surging oil prices.Analysts at trading firm
    FxPro told CoinDesk in a note that they were watching for a break of the $28,000
    level for bitcoin before turning bullish.“Technically, bitcoin remains in an
    uptrend but ran into resistance at its 200-day moving average over the
    weekend,” the analysts said. “All eyes will be on BTCUSD to see if it can
    successfully consolidate above $28,000, the 200-day moving average. If it does,
    we can expect a quick rise to as much as $29,500.”Elsewhere, ether slumped 3%
    as the Ethereum Foundation sold $2.7 million worth of the tokens on Monday,
    sparking concerns among traders. This weighed in on ETH futures markets – with
    ether bulls losing over $30 million, the highest among all crypto traders, on
    Monday.Elsewhere, Solana’s SOL tokens slid nearly 5%, XRP dropped 3.7% and
    Cardano’s ADA fell 3.4%. The CoinDesk Market Index (CMI), a broad-based
    indication of crypto markets that tracks hundreds of tokens, fell 1.9% –
    pointing to overall losses for traders.Edited by Parikshit Mishra.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2023/10/09/crypto-markets-stable-oil-prices-surge-as-hamas-attack-on-israel-jolts-markets/
    Cryptocurrency prices buckled Monday alongside modest declines in global equity
    markets and rising oil prices on renewed Middle East turmoil.Bitcoin (BTC)
    dropped 1.7% over the past 24 hours to $27,500, outperforming most digital
    assets as crypto investment services firm Matrixport touted the largest crypto
    asset as "better than digital gold." Bitcoin late Friday and over the weekend
    seemed primed to challenge a two-month high above $28,400, but was unable to
    move above $28,200 before sellers finally took over early this morning.The broad
    CoinDesk Market Index (CMI) was lower by 2%.Ether (ETH) suffered a 2.5% decline
    as – in addition to macro jitters – the Ethereum Foundation sold $2.7M of
    tokens on UniSwap. The second largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization
    extended its losing streak against BTC, dropping to a fresh 15-month low
    relative to bitcoin.Losses were larger among other altcoins. Ripple
    Labs-adjacent token (XRP), solana (SOL), Polygon's native token (MATIC),
    Avalanche's (AVAX) and popular meme token dogecoin (DOGE) are all lower by 4%-5%
    over the past 24 hours.Hamas attack on Israel shakes marketsThe Israel-Hamas
    conflict extended to its third day on Monday. Fears of the conflict spilling
    over to neighboring states, such as Iran, seemed to impact oil prices as traders
    opined it could disrupt supply.“There could be “a pretty dramatic effect on
    the oil market” should the U.S. enforce sanctions on Iranian exports, Josh
    Young, chief investment officer of energy investment firm Bison Interests told
    CNBC. “I think it’s appropriate to see oil, let’s say, up about $5 for
    WTI.”WTI crude oil rose near 3.5% since Sunday to $86.54 per barrel,
    MarketWatch data shows, extending three-month gains to 16%.Equity markets in
    Asia closed the day in red and while Europe and U.S. stocks are lower as well,
    the losses are rather modest with the Stoxx 600 off just 0.25% and the S&P 500
    down 0.6%.Edited by Parikshit Mishra and Stephen Alpher.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/business/2023/05/09/crypto-options-liquidity-provider-orbit-markets-offers-bitcoin-and-gold-hybrid-derivative/
    Orbit Markets, an institutional liquidity provider of crypto options, is rolling
    out the first bitcoin and gold hybrid-focused derivative product with execution
    broker PI Digital.The initiative is among the latest developments among crypto
    industry firms to provide steady returns during periods of macroeconomic
    uncertainty. It aims to give investors exposure to gold and digital assets, two
    assets that hold their value.“This hybrid asset product is a perfect fit for
    investors that have experience in traditional assets such as gold and are now
    starting to dip their toes into digital assets,” OrBit Markets said in a press
    release.The derivative product, XAUT, is a gold-backed token issued by Tether.
    At maturity, the product will be settled in either USDT, XAUT or bitcoin as
    designated by OrBit, the Singapore-based company said.In its statement, OrBit
    noted that traditional financial service firms (TradFi) commonly offer hybrid
    products, including those combining stocks and commodity assets.The company said
    that investors “anticipating a sustained rally” in these two “safe
    haven” assets have risen amid growing concerns about the U.S. central bank’s
    hawkish monetary policy and resulting turmoil in the banking sector.“It's a
    dual option on both BTC and XAUT,” OrBit said, adding that investors could
    express “various sophisticated views” on bitcoin and the XAU token,
    including increases or decreases in returns for both, or if returns for one of
    the assets climbs but fall for the other.The "worst-of put option" allows
    investors to earn an enhanced yield if both assets appreciate. On the flip side,
    investors may be "put" into the worst performer should either asset fall, the
    liquidity provider said.In March, DeFi-focused asset management company MEV
    Capital used OrBit markets-issued options contracts to hedge liquidity
    providers’ positions and prevent losses in Uniswap (v3) liquidity
    pools.“OrBit aims to offer flexible solutions to our counterparties,” Pulkit
    Goyal, OrBit Markets VP of Trading adding that “OrBit plans to launch further
    hybrid products dedicated to institutional investors.”Edited by James Rubin.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2023/10/10/bitcoin-could-fall-due-to-israel-hamas-tensions-traders-worry/
    The effects of the war in the Middle East could spill over to the crypto markets
    and cause a short-term decline in riskier assets such as bitcoin (BTC), several
    traders who spoke to CoinDesk opined.The conflict extended to its fourth day on
    Tuesday following Hamas' surprise weekend attack into southern Israeli towns.
    The war's death toll has neared 1,600 on both sides, according to the Associated
    Press.“The global market worries that the conflict will spread to nearby
    oil-producing countries so investors are still relatively sensitive,” said
    Greta Yuan, head of research at digital assets platform VDX, in an email to
    CoinDesk. “As the geopolitics of the Middle East worsened over the weekend and
    market risk-averse sentiment increased, as a result, spot gold rose by nearly
    1%.”Crypto markets had earlier slumped 2% on Monday as traders priced in
    rising oil prices and a drop in traditional equities as the turmoil could impact
    international trade.Futures traders betting on higher prices saw over $100
    million in liquidations over a 24-hour period from Monday, as alternative
    currencies saw a sell-off. However, crypto markets are showing signs of early
    resilience that may instill confidence among bulls.“Currently, we've observed
    a temporary dip in Bitcoin's price following the shocking news of the conflict,
    but the price has already stabilized,” noted Jeff Mei, chief operating officer
    of crypto exchange BTSE. “Crypto assets have shown resilience in the face of
    rising geopolitical turmoil in the past.”“For instance, when the U.S.
    imposed sanctions following Russia's invasion of Ukraine, we saw a sharp rebound
    in Bitcoin and the broader crypto market - that was in March last year,” Mei
    added.In early 2022, military tensions between Russia and Ukraine saw bitcoin
    shed as much as 7% in a single day, displaying the significance and impact of
    geopolitical struggles on the niche asset class. At such times, typically,
    investors tend to flee to gold, while assets deemed riskier tend to see
    declines.Meanwhile, some traders say investors should keep an eye out for oil
    and energy market changes for now to gain a sense of where bitcoin may be
    headed.“Regarding macroeconomic implications, should the risks of expansion
    and conflict escalation materialize, we must keep an eye on energy prices
    again,” said Alex Kuptsikevich, FxPro senior market analyst, in a message to
    CoinDesk. “Rising oil prices are triggering a wave of sell-off in equities,
    fuelling expectations of tighter monetary policy. And that's the most
    considerable risk to assets like Bitcoin and the crypto market as a
    whole.”“However, if we see a quick return to some form of normalcy, that
    would be a positive for cryptocurrencies. But for now, that looks like a less
    likely scenario,” Kuptsikevich said, adding that, for now, the chances of
    appetite for equities and cryptocurrencies to shrink was higher compared to the
    past weeks.Edited by Parikshit Mishra and Kevin Reynolds.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2023/11/15/crypto-futures-funding-rates-normalize-after-bitcoin-drops-to-356k/
    Funding rates on the futures of major tokens have started to revert to normal
    levels after recent euphoria led to traders paying unusually high fees to remain
    in their long positions.Large movements in spot markets led to open interest
    surging to over $35 billion over the weekend, indicating highly leveraged bets
    from traders hoping for even higher prices. This was a near 40% increase since
    the $24 billion level at the end of October, data shows.The levered pile-on
    meant funding levels moved to some of their highest in recent months. Funding
    rates are periodic payments made by traders based on the difference between
    prices in the futures and spot markets.Data shows traders were paying anywhere
    from 0.2% to 0.5% in fees every eight hours on their borrowed funds to remain in
    their long positions. This meant speculators paid as much as 50 cents to
    exchanges on a $100 position.Futures funding rates were at unusually high levels
    in the past week. (Coinglass)However, some market watchers warned of a dump as
    traders were more incentivized to go short or bet against, a price rise as such
    positions earned fees from those going long. In futures trading, longs pay
    shorts when funding is positive, and vice-versa when funding is negative.This
    likely culminated in Tuesday’s market drop as traders took profits on a
    week-long rise.Nearly 90% of bullish bets were liquidated, amounting to over
    $300 million, with bitcoin traders losing $120 million as prices sank 4%. Ether
    traders lost $63 million, while XRP and Solana’s SOL-tracked futures saw over
    $30 million in cumulative liquidations.Liquidation refers to when an exchange
    forcefully closes a trader’s leveraged position due to a partial or total loss
    of the trader’s initial margin. It happens when a trader is unable to meet the
    margin requirements for a leveraged position (fails to have sufficient funds to
    keep the trade open).Large liquidations can signal the local top or bottom of a
    steep price move. As such, funding rates are back to normal levels of an average
    of 0.01% on most exchanges as of Wednesday morning.Crypto markets added over 6%
    in the past week on the back of heightened expectations of a spot bitcoin
    exchange-traded fund (ETF) approval in the U.S., with some analysts reiterating
    a 90% chance of a January nod.Elsewhere, traditional finance giant BlackRock
    filed for an ether (ETH) ETF – buoying the token higher, alongside
    alternatives such as Avalanche, Solana and Polygon.Edited by Parikshit Mishra.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/business/2023/10/10/tokenized-rwa-platform-untangled-goes-live-gets-135m-funding-to-bring-private-credit-on-chain/
    Tokenized real-world asset (RWA) marketplace Untangled Finance went live
    Wednesday on the Celo network after securing a $13.5 million venture capital
    boost to bring tokenized private credit to the blockchain, the company told
    CoinDesk.The lead investor was London-based asset management firm Fasanara
    Capital, which has also opened two credit pools on the platform, handling
    off-chain operations and underwriting loans.Untangled also announced plans to
    expand to Ethereum (ETH) and layer 2 network Polygon (MATIC) via Chainlink’s
    (LINK) Cross Chain Interoperability Protocol, making the platform a multichain
    and interoperable RWA credit protocol.The development comes as asset
    tokenization emerged as one of the key growth opportunities in the digital asset
    industry, still reeling from a grueling bear market and last year’s
    high-profile implosions. Tokenization refers to placing traditional financial
    assets such as credit, real estate or bonds – so-called real-world assets –
    on a blockchain.The market of tokenized assets could mushroom to $5 trillion in
    the next five years, bringing operational efficiencies and improving liquidity
    and accessibility for investors and asset managers, Bernstein said in a report
    earlier this year.Read more: The Trillion Dollar Crypto Opportunity: Real World
    Asset TokenizationTokenization of private credit marketsUntangled aims to bring
    the traditional private credit market – currently more than $1 trillion in
    size – to blockchains via tokenization. The current size of private credit on
    decentralized finance (DeFi) rails only totals $550 million of assets, according
    to rwa.xyz data.Manrui Tang and Quan Le, co-founders of Untangled, said in an
    interview with CoinDesk that the platform focuses on fintech lending – for
    example invoice financing and consumer loans based on salary advances – and
    so-called “green assets,” such as working capital or development loans for
    green infrastructure projects like battery swapping stations,Untangled provides
    infrastructure to host blockchain-based credit pools, where investors – in
    this case, certified investors, firms, and decentralized autonomous
    organizations (DAOs) – deposit funds to lend and earn a yield. Depositors
    receive an ERC-20 token that represents their positions.The platform brings a
    few novelties among RWA lending protocols, the co-founders explained. It has a
    built-in liquidation engine that may auction off certain collateral assets to
    improve the pool’s overall health if it falls below a certain threshold. The
    company has crafted a forward-looking credit assessment model that monitors the
    borrower’s future default risks. The protocol also offers an auction-based
    withdrawal mechanism for investors who want to exit the pools early.“We see an
    upcoming merging of worlds,” Francesco Filia, CEO and CIO of Fasanara Capital,
    said in a statement. “On one side, fintech lending which fills the gap in
    underserved SME and consumer markets and, on the other, the way values are being
    transferred within the new world of digital assets.”Edited by Stephen Alpher.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/podcasts/markets-daily/crypto-update-why-crypto-is-not-an-industry/
    Today's Stories:First Mover Asia: Crypto Is Flat Before Fed Chair Speech;
    Japan's SBI Building a Metamask Competitor for Yen-Denominated NFT TradingBRN00
    | Brent Crude Oil Continuous Contract Overview | MarketWatchCentral Banks Are
    Working on a Monitoring System for Stablecoin Balance SheetsDCG Is Selling
    Holdings in Several Grayscale Trusts: Financial TimesDCG Creditor Pact Revealed
    With Plan to Sell Genesis Trading Unit as Part of BankruptcyUK Banks Blocking
    Crypto Access Given Fraud, Volatility, Lawmakers ToldCrypto Exchange Binance to
    Suspend US Dollar Bank Transfers This WeekThe Ordinals Protocol Has Caused a
    Resurgence in Bitcoin DevelopmentFeatured Story: Why Crypto Is Not an
    'Industry'This episode was edited & produced by Adrian Blust, with original
    music by Doc Blust and Colin Mealey.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/podcasts/markets-daily/crypto-update-why-are-crypto-exchanges-launching-layer-2-blockchains/
    Today's episode is sponsored by CME Group and PayPal.To get the show every day,
    follow the podcast here.Today’s Stories:Coinbase Officially Launches Base
    Blockchain in Milestone for a Public CompanyKraken Said to Seek Partner to Help
    Build It a Layer 2 Blockchain NetworkCryptocurrency Exchange OKX Coming Out With
    Layer 2 ‘X1’ Built on Polygon TechnologyBitcoin Miner Hut 8 Q3 Net Loss More
    Than Doubles as Production SlumpsBitcoin Miner Marathon Digital Beats Q3
    Earnings Estimates, but Misses on RevenueFrom our sponsors:CME Group
    Cryptocurrency futures and options provide market-leading liquidity for bitcoin
    and ether trading. These cash-settled contracts give full exposure to crypto
    performance without the hassle of holding the physical position. No digital
    wallet? No problem. Trade nearly 24/7 in a transparent, CFTC-regulated market.
    Visit cmegroup.com/crypto to learn more.Disclaimer:This communication is not
    directed to investors located in any particular jurisdiction and is not intended
    to be accessed by recipients based in jurisdictions in which distribution is not
    permitted. The information herein should not be considered investment advice or
    the results of actual market experience. Past results are not necessarily
    indicative of future performance. Trading derivatives products involves the risk
    of loss. Please consider carefully whether futures or options are appropriate to
    your financial situation.-PYUSD, a stablecoin made for Payments. 1USD =
    1PYUSD.Introducing PayPal’s new digital currency, PayPal USD (PYUSD), a
    stablecoin backed by U.S. dollar deposits, U.S. Treasuries and similar cash
    equivalents. Buy, sell, hold and transfer it in our app or site and explore Web3
    with a payments brand that has been trusted for over 20 years.Get started now at
    paypal.com/pyusd.This episode was hosted by Noelle Acheson. “Markets Daily”
    is executive produced by Jared Schwartz and produced and edited by Eleanor Pahl.
    All original music by Doc Blust and Colin Mealey.Audio Transcript: This
    transcript has not been edited and may contain errors.It’s Wednesday, November
    15th, 2023 and this is Markets Daily from CoinDesk. My name is Noelle Acheson,
    CoinDesk collaborator and author of the Crypto is Macro Now newsletter on
    Substack. On today’s show we’re talking about exchange developments, bitcoin
    miners, economic data and more. So you don’t miss an episode, be sure to
    follow the podcast on your platform of choice, and turn on notifications. And
    just a reminder, CoinDesk is a news source and does not provide investment
    advice.Now, a markets roundup.Crypto markets are looking more positive today,
    but have yet to walk back yesterday’s sharp drop. According to CoinDesk
    Indices, at 9 a.m. eastern time this morning, bitcoin was trading down 1.2% over
    the past 24 hours, at 36,137 dollars. Ether is down 1.4%, trading at just over
    2019 dollars.Elsewhere, Solana is up 8.4%, Avalanche’s token is up almost 13%
    Lido DAO’s token is up 14%. Kronos up 15%. It certainly looks like interest is
    picking up in small-to-midcap tokens.In macro indicators, this week is a heavy
    one for key economic data points. Yesterday, we saw the softer-than-expected
    U.S. inflation rates for October. Today, we got another inflation indicator that
    confirms the slowdown in price increases. This comes from the U.S. PPI, or the
    producer’s price index, which measures the prices paid to domestic
    producers.The year-on-year increase in September was 2.2%. Expectations were for
    an increase in October of 1.9%. The actual figure came in at a surprising 1.3%.
    Month-on-month, the PPI index actually declined half a percent, the steepest
    drop since April of 2020.Very good news there.Then we got US retail sales. Up
    until recently, the U.S. consumer has kept on spending despite higher rates and
    signs of a slowing economy. This raised concerns that bringing inflation down
    further will be tough. Well, today we saw a welcome sign that the growth in
    retail sales is slowing down.On a year-on-year basis, U.S. retail sales grew by
    4% in September, and only by 2.5% in October. Monthly growth was negative 0.1%,
    versus a positive 0.9% increase in September. While this may sound like good
    news to you, the market is not so happy about it because the monthly retail
    sales fell by less than expected. There’s no pleasing some people, I
    guess.U.S. yields are heading up again after their sharp fall yesterday, with
    the 10-year currently back above 4.5%.For some obviously not-so-good news, we
    head down to Argentina, which on Monday reported its latest inflation data.
    Annual inflation in Argentina is now 143%, which is hard to imagine. The country
    heads into a run-off election on Sunday, with the current economy minister
    Sergio Massa running against far-right candidate Javier Milei, who wants to get
    rid of the country’s central bank. This should be an interesting one to
    watch.In stocks, the good news on inflation delivered some strong stock
    performances. The S&P 500 and the Nasdaq both recorded their strongest daily
    gain since April, with jumps of 1.9% and 2.4% respectively. The retail sales
    disappointment seems to have muted the excitement, however, and as we head in to
    record, futures are pointing to a muted opening.The U.S. inflation data also
    worked its magic in European markets. Yesterday, the FTSE 100 managed to erase
    early losses to close two tenths of a percent higher, while the German DAX was
    up 1.8% and the broader Eurostoxx 600 climbed 1.3%. This morning is also looking
    strong.Asian markets are also feeling positive, compounded by a move from the
    Chinese central bank to pump the largest amount of cash since 2016 into the
    banking system in a bid to stimulate lending. Japan’s Nikkei index was up
    2.5%, the Shanghai Composite closed up half a percent, and the Hang Seng index
    soared by almost 4% today.In commodities, oil prices are slightly weak, as
    expectations of higher demand heading into winter is being offset by the
    apparent easing of supply concerns stemming from the conflict in the Middle
    East. Earlier today, the Brent crude benchmark was down six tenths of a percent,
    trading at 82 dollars and 37 cents a barrel.Gold jumped yesterday as the dollar
    plummeted after the U.S. CPI results. The metal continued up this morning, at
    one point passing above 1,970 dollars per ounce, but dropped sharply after the
    disappointing US retail sales figures came out. Gold is currently trading flat
    on the day, at 1,963 dollars per ounce.Stay with us – after the break we’re
    going to talk about how bitcoin miners are doing and why it matters, as well as
    an intriguing trend I’m seeing in crypto exchanges.Welcome back! In this
    section, we’re going to look at some news from bitcoin miners, but
    first…There’s an interesting trend emerging in crypto exchanges. They’re
    launching their own layer 2 blockchains. As a brief introduction in case
    you’re not familiar, layer 2 blockchains are built on top of layer 1 or base
    blockchains such as Bitcoin or Ethereum, with the goal of enhancing scalability,
    speed and flexibility. Transactions are executed on the layer 2, and then
    periodically batched and anchored to the relevant layer 1. The two largest layer
    2s are Arbitrum and Optimism, which now host billions of dollars in value, and
    have thriving developer communities of their own.This summer, Coinbase launched
    its own layer 2 chain, called Base, which has since risen to become the third
    largest layer 2 in terms of value locked in applications on the network. Last
    week, we heard that Kraken was seeking a partner to develop a layer 2 network.
    And yesterday, OKX, the sixth largest crypto exchange in terms of volume,
    announced that it is launching a layer 2 called X1.Why are exchanges doing this?
    Why move beyond focusing on earning profits via trading services?The big-picture
    reason is ecosystem growth. More applications and a wider range of networks
    should broaden crypto activity, much of which is likely to find its way onto
    exchanges. This is the rising tide lifts all boats approach. Also, even for
    individual exchange businesses, the investment can make sense. It makes it
    easier for developers to access exchange tools, which should boost exchange
    activity. It helps exchanges cultivate developer communities which can lead to
    the development of original new products. And it broadens the potential user
    base for an exchange’s trading and custody services.Stepping back again, as
    more exchange layer 2s are rolled out, we could see new types of market
    collaborations emerge, perhaps between the exchange networks. This could have
    the market-wide benefit of making the flow of funds and assets around the
    ecosystem even more fluid.Next, it’s time to take a look at bitcoin miners,
    something I haven’t done before on this podcast. I’m not going to talk about
    individual bitcoin mining stocks, even though they are a listed way to get
    exposure to the bitcoin price. Rather, I’m going to touch on why we should pay
    attention to their earnings.This came to mind yesterday as I was reading
    CoinDesk’s report on the Q3 results of bitcoin miner Hut 8. The firm said that
    third quarter revenue was almost half what it was in Q3 2022, and that its net
    loss had more than doubled. This is obviously not great news for the company or
    its shareholders. But it’s worth looking at why, and what this means for the
    market.Often, when a bitcoin miner’s revenue and profits fall, it’s to do
    with the bitcoin price. Lower bitcoin prices mean lower income from the sale of
    mined bitcoin. But the bitcoin price in the third quarter was much higher than
    this time last year, so that’s not the problem here.Another factor is often
    the level of difficulty of bitcoin mining. This is an automatic algorithm
    adjustment that keeps the pace of transaction blocks steady – when more
    processing power comes onto the network, the difficulty climbs in order to make
    it more power-intensive to process transactions and receive new bitcoins. More
    power-intensive usually also means more costly to mine.In the case of Hut 8, the
    main culprit was apparently some issues with a couple of the firm’s mining
    sites, and the loss of revenue from mining on Ethereum after the move to
    proof-of-stake is also a hit.Here’s why mining results matter for the bitcoin
    price:If a bitcoin miner is struggling, it has an incentive to sell all the
    newly mined bitcoin, to cover operating costs. When the price is relatively low,
    it has to sell more bitcoin than when the price is high. This brings selling
    pressure into the market, which in theory could keep the price low.In the third
    quarter results of bitcoin miner Marathon Digital, released last week, the firm
    revealed that it had sold 66% of mined bitcoin during the quarter. That’s
    significant.As the price climbs, however, bitcoin miners need to sell less in
    order to cover costs. This means less selling pressure. Also, as the market
    recovers and as miners start to do better, it is easier for them to get
    financing to help cover costs, which means even less new bitcoin entering the
    market.Now, I don’t know how many bitcoins Hut 8 sold in the third quarter,
    nor how many Marathon Digital is selling now. But miners are worth watching
    because the health of bitcoin miners is a key part of the health of the bitcoin
    market.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/learn/why-william-hinmans-emails-matter-to-the-xrp-army-and-the-cryptos-price/
    On June 13, 2023, documents tied to William Hinman, the former director of the
    U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)’s Division of Corporation
    Finance from 2017 to 2020, were released to the public in connection with the
    SEC's lawsuit against Ripple, briefly sending the price of the XRP token up 7.4%
    as optimism spread that Ripple would win their ongoing case.Here’s why:Very
    broadly, Ripple and its partisans have argued that the Hinman emails could
    reveal a biased or flawed process behind the decision to publicly suggest in a
    2018 speech by Hinman that Ethereum (ETH) may not be a security. One smoking gun
    might have been some sort of display of bias against Ripple and XRP, but the
    released emails do not mention either directly.Ripple’s Chief Legal Officer
    Stuart Alderoty argued after the release that the emails showed Hinman ignoring
    warnings from colleagues that his speech was not grounded in law and created
    confusion about securities designations. At the very least, Alderoy seems to be
    suggesting Ripple has been treated unfairly by regulators.Early analysis of the
    emails does not seem to have found a major win for Ripple Labs, however. After a
    short rally on the morning of the emails’ release, XRP retraced its price and
    headed even lower, which may reflect some disappointment on this front.Ahead of
    the documents’ release, Ripple and XRP supporters had been focused on
    statements by Hinman suggesting that a token isn’t a security if it is
    “sufficiently decentralized.” That metric seems to have been used to justify
    a public carveout for Ethereum, but, at least according to feedback given to
    Hinman by other SEC staff and officials, was not grounded in existing securities
    regulation. Ripple has argued that XRP, like Ethereum, is “sufficiently
    decentralized” and should not be classified as a security according to the
    standards laid out by Hinman.Critics have long argued, however, that the
    underlying claim that Ethereum and XRP are comparably decentralized is itself
    highly debatable. Most significantly, there has now been close to a decade of
    debate and litigation over whether Ripple itself should be considered the
    creator of the XRP ledger and issuer of the XRP token – and therefore the
    issuer and seller of an unregistered security.Ripple Labs allies generally
    characterize the company as separate from XRP. In particular, they have argued
    that the XRP blockchain was created by Jed McCaleb and Chris Larsen, working as
    OpenCoin, before an entity called “Ripple” even existed. But OpenCoin became
    Ripple Labs and what is today simply called Ripple, and those cofounders
    “gifted” 80 billion XRP, 80% of the total supply, to Ripple Labs. Over the
    years, Ripple has made a variety of branding and messaging changes to represent
    that they are not the creators of XRP. That includes changing the preferred way
    to discuss the token itself, which for many years was commonly referred to as
    “Ripple.”Read More: What Is Ripple and the XRP Cryptocurrency?To critics
    such as Preston Byrne, this looks like an orchestrated deception, and one of the
    earliest instances of “decentralization theater.” And if XRP was effectively
    created or issued by Ripple, the parallel to Ethereum breaks down quickly, since
    Ethereum has no corporate for-profit parent. This could be a more compelling
    explanation for the different regulatory treatment of the two chains than bias
    or procedural failures.In any case, however the case develops and is ultimately
    decided, whenever new information is released that supporters believe bolsters
    or hurts Ripple's side of the case, XRP's price generally moves in parallel with
    the positive or negative sentiment.See Also: Ripple Does Not Care Whether XRP Is
    “Sufficiently Decentralized”Edited by Toby Leah Bochan.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/learn/binance-crypto-exchange-your-questions-answered/
    Founded in 2017 by Changpeng Zhao, who is often referred to as just “CZ,”
    Binance is the world's leading cryptocurrency exchange by trading volume as of
    June 2023. The company was originally based in China but had to leave Shanghai
    due to regulatory restrictions shortly after its launch.Binance developed its
    own blockchain, Binance Smart Chain (later renamed to BNB Chain), which
    facilitates trades on the exchange. The native token of the blockchain is
    Binance coin (BNB) and the company has also launched a stablecoin, BinanceUSD
    (BUSD). Because of U.S. regulatory rules, Binance created a supposedly separate
    company for its U.S. clients in 2019, Binance.US.On June 5, 2023, the U.S.
    Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filed charges against Binance.US as
    well as CZ, who serves as Binance CEO, on allegations of violating federal
    securities laws by offering BNB and BUSD to the general public, calling them
    unregistered securities. The SEC lawsuit also casts fresh doubt on the
    independence of the company’s U.S. arm and its staking service.Read more about
    the SEC suit hereThis is not Binance’s first battle with U.S. regulators.
    Binance is also under ongoing scrutiny from the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
    Commission (CFTC) who sued CZ and Binance in March 2023, alleging the company
    knowingly offered unregistered crypto derivatives products in the U.S.Here is
    everything you need to know about Binance, Binance.US and CEO Changpeng "CZ"
    Zhao.Who is Changpeng "CZ" Zhao and why did he launch Binance?CZ is a well-known
    personality in crypto, actively engaging with the crypto community through
    Twitter and speaking at conferences and to the media. As for his origins, he was
    born in China and emigrated to Canada when he was 12 and says he is a Canadian
    citizen. In high school, he worked part-time at McDonald’s, which is part of
    his well-known lore. He graduated from McGill University with a degree in
    Computer Science.After college, he worked for the Tokyo stock exchange and
    Bloomberg Tradebook developing software for the businesses. He then founded a
    startup in 2005, Fusion Systems, which focused on creating an automated
    high-frequency trading platform. Following that, he worked for several crypto
    startups including a stint as co-founder and CTO of OKCoin. Another piece of the
    CZ lore is that he first heard about Bitcoin at a poker game, which planted the
    seed that led him to create his own cryptocurrency exchange, Binance.According
    to the white paper, Zhao's goal for Binance was to compete with other exchanges
    by offering solutions to the numerous problems he saw with the cryptocurrency
    trading infrastructure – including poor technical architecture, insecure
    platforms, low market liquidity, poor customer support and poor language
    support.Shortly after Binance’s 2017 launch, Binance raised $15 million
    through an Initial Coin Offering (ICO) for BNB, the terms of which were also
    laid out in the white paper.What’s the difference between Binance and
    Binance.US?Binance started as one big company, founded in Shanghai in 2017.
    Because of China’s crackdown on crypto, the company left shortly after and
    while there were efforts to relocate the headquarters to Singapore and Malta was
    once thought to be Binance’s base, CZ currently claims that Binance has no
    headquarters and that wherever he is, that is where Binance is based.Binance
    also has a native coin, Binance Coin (BNB), which was initially launched on
    Ethereum as an ERC-20 token and subsequently migrated to Binance's proprietary
    blockchain, BNB Chain. BNB functions as an exchange token, meaning holders of
    BNB with Binance accounts can access discounted fees on the exchange.Binance
    created Binance.US in 2019 in response to regulatory requirements in the United
    States and notified customers that their accounts would be required to migrate
    to the new U.S-based exchange in November 2020. That said, many people noted
    that by using a VPN service, U.S.-based customers could still use Binance’s
    services.One of the biggest differences between the two exchanges is that
    Binance.com offers a much wider range of cryptocurrencies, with over 500
    available for trading. Binance.US offers over 120 cryptocurrencies and is not
    available in all states as of writing, with Hawaii, New York, Texas, and Vermont
    blocking use of the exchange.The other big difference is that Binance.US does
    not offer margin trading or futures contracts, while Binance does. Both
    platforms offer low fees.Finally, unlike Binance’s stance that it has no
    headquarters, the U.S. arm is clearly based in Palo Alto, California. The SEC
    suit is specifically against Binance.US and Zhao and not the larger
    exchange.Binance: A timeline of major events and notable newsJuly 2017: Binance
    launches and raises $15 million through its BNB ICO.July 2018: Binance acquires
    Trust Wallet, a free, non-custodial mobile wallet to support its upcoming
    decentralized exchange (DEX) offering.January 2019: Binance starts to offer
    support for new token listings through ICOs (initial coin offerings) and IEOs
    (initial exchange offerings), through its Launchpad product.April 2019: Binance
    migrates BNB from Ethereum to its proprietary chain, then called Binance Smart
    Chain (now rebranded to Binance chain or BNB chain)April 2019: Binance launches
    its DEX ahead of schedule.May 2019: Binance gets hacked for the first time.
    Hackers steal over 7,000 bitcoin (BTC) from Binance (the equivalent of roughly
    $41 million at the time). Zhao quickly took to social media to reassure users
    that no one lost funds and that Binance used its reserve funds to cover the
    costs of the stolen crypto. CZ's "Funds are #SAFU" tweet has become a meme in
    the crypto space.June 2019: Binance announces it will launch a new trading
    platform for U.S. customers, in partnership with a firm called BAM Trading
    Services.July 2019: Binance hires former Ripple executive, Catherine Coley, to
    run its planned U.S. marketplace.September 2019: Binance launches its own
    dollar-backed stablecoin, BUSD in partnership with the Paxos Trust
    Company.September 2019: Binance.US launches in 37 states. The new marketplace
    supports six cryptocurrencies at launch: bitcoin, (BTC), ether (ETH), XRP,
    bitcoin cash (BCH), litecoin (LTC), tether (USDT) and BNB. BUSD is notably not
    supported at launch.April 2020: Binance buys CoinMarketCap, a cryptocurrency
    data provider, for a rumored $400 million, making it one of the biggest M&A
    deals in crypto. “CoinMarketCap has more users than any other product in the
    crypto space,” Zhao said at the time. “It’s a very valuable
    platform.”September 2020: Binance rolls out Launchpool, a crypto staking
    platform.November 2020: Binance notifies U.S. customers they have a hard
    deadline of two weeks to migrate to the new platform before Binance shutters
    their accounts.April 2021: Binance.US hires Brian Brooks as CEO to replace
    Catherine Coley in the role.August 2021: Binance.US CEO Brian Brooks quits over
    “strategic differences” after just months in the job.September 2021:
    Binance.US promotes Brian Schroder to CEO; he formerly served as president and
    board member for the firm.April 2022: Binance.US raises $200 million in its
    first funding round, giving it a $4.5 billion valuation.September 2022: Binance
    announces it will stop supporting the second-largest stablecoin USDC and
    automatically convert customer funds to BUSD.October 2022: Binance suffers
    another major hack, and had to briefly halt trading on BNB after a “potential
    exploit” drained $100 million in crypto.October 2022: Binance confirms it has
    contributed $500 million towards Elon Musk’s bid to buy Twitter.November 2022:
    Amidst the collapse of FTX, there was a brief moment when Binance was going to
    buy the rival exchange. That deal quickly collapsed as the scope of FTX’s
    issues came to light.December 2022: Binance.US reaches an agreement to buy
    Voyager Digital's assets for just over $1 billion. Voyager, had gone into
    bankruptcy earlier in 2022 and originally had agreed to sell its assets to FTX,
    which folded itself.February 2023: BUSD issuer Paxos is hit with a one-two punch
    of an investigation by the New York Department of Financial Services and a Wells
    Notice from the SEC, which some believed hinted at Binance as a future target
    for the SEC. Following these actions, Paxos halted minting BUSD.March 2023: The
    CFTC sues CZ and Binance over allegations that the company offered unregistered
    crypto derivatives products.April 2023: Rumors of an Interpol “Red Notice”
    for CZ tank BNB price, but there is little to back up the claim.April 2023:
    Binance.US pulls out of a $1 billion deal to buy Voyager Digital’s assets,
    attributing the termination to the "hostile and uncertain regulatory climate in
    the United States."June 2023: The SEC files charges against Binance.US and its
    founder Changpeng "CZ" Zhao on allegations of violating federal securities laws
    with BNB token and Binance-linked BUSD stablecoin. The suit also alleges that
    Binance's staking service violated securities law as well as that the entities
    of Binance.US and Binance were not truly independent.Edited by Rosie Perper.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/learn/what-is-web5-and-how-is-it-different-from-web3/
    The world is still getting its collective head around Web3 – a suite of
    decentralized protocols that add a (disputably) censorship-resistant financial
    layer to the internet. So why did Jack Dorsey, the creator of Web2 platform
    Twitter, skip right ahead to what he calls "Web5"?It turns out that, despite the
    name, Web5 does not follow the yet-to-be-created Web4. The Web5 platform,
    announced in June, 2022 by TBD, the crypto and decentralized finance arm of
    Dorsey’s payments company, Block (née Square), is firmly based on Web3 tech,
    but promises “an extra decentralized web platform.”To land on the name Web5,
    TBD just added Web3 (an internet powered by blockchain-based smart contracts) to
    Web2 (centralized content platforms, like Twitter or Facebook). Put simply: 3 +
    2 = 5.Web5 presentation (tbd.website)Web5’s core idea is to “put you in
    control of your data and identity” – a core tenet of Web3’s decentralized
    identity systems. Instead of inviting users to sign up for an account on a
    centralized platform (like an Instagram account), Web3 protocols reference users
    by their crypto wallet addresses. Protocols like the Ethereum Name Service let
    users turn their wallet’s garbled alphanumeric string into a word or phrase
    (like jane.eth) similar to how Domain Name Service (DNS) allowed websites to
    have addresses like coindesk.com rather than a long string of numbers like
    54.235.191.121. Decentralized data storage is a concept already in existence and
    is provided by platforms like Filecoin and IPFS.Dorsey’s Web5 offers similar
    capabilities. Instead of an internet that relies on accounts provided by
    companies that hold customer data “captive in app silos,” Web5 pushes for
    “a new class of decentralized apps and protocols that put individuals at the
    center.”There are three pillars at Web5’s core: self-owned decentralized
    identifiers, verifiable credentials and decentralized web nodes for storing data
    and relaying messages. It sounds a lot like what decentralized identity services
    have been doing since the Ethereum Name Service launched in May 2017.So,
    what’s new here – apart from yet another stab at decentralized identities?
    Part of the answer may lie in Dorsey’s allegiance to bitcoin and his
    aggressive dismissal of Web3 culture. For Dorsey, bitcoin, launched in a truly
    decentralized fashion in 2009, is the only cryptocurrency that matters, the rest
    having been corrupted by venture capitalists who bent the platforms to their
    will. Accordingly, Web5 is run without any “special utility tokens or
    subjective consensus” that is part of the governance-token, decentralized
    autonomous organization (DAO)-controlled protocols like the Ethereum Name
    Service.In doing so, Web5 sounds like an attempt to rid Web3 of the centralized
    actors that Dorsey credits with sullying the mission of decentralization. Zion,
    a self-described Web5 app, uses Bitcoin’s base layer to help content creators
    work together with fans. But avoiding corruption is, of course, difficult:
    Web5’s nascent community already balked at TBD’s attempt to trademark the
    term Web5.The other thing that is different from Web3 is that Web5 works with
    existing Web2 services; it does not seek to replace them entirely. Web5’s
    pitch deck provides the example of Groove adding a playlist to a Web5 user’s
    decentralized identifier, which another music service, Tidal, can use to fashion
    its own playlists within the app. The decentralized identifier prevents the user
    from having to recreate their preferences on another platform.TBD’s other
    example of Web5 in action involves one user granting her hotel, airline and
    rental car provider the ability to add information to her database about her
    trip. The user can revoke access at any time and choose another service to
    “help her visualize her itinerary.” Again, the idea is to tie data that’s
    usually locked inside centralized services – something TBD calls “a massive,
    unworkable mess” – to a single user-controlled identity. Think of it as
    similar to how many sites and apps leverage a user’s Google account to log in,
    but in this case it will be a single login with a decentralized network of
    nodes.Will it work? Time will tell. So far, the only decentralized identity
    service that’s caught on in any measure is the Ethereum Name Service, and the
    only data storage system with any cachet is the interplanetary file service
    (better known as IPFS).One of the key things that distinguish TBD’s ambition
    is the backing of its billionaire progenitor, Jack Dorsey. But it’s unclear
    how Web5 would make money or why, ideological reasons aside, the company is
    creating such a service. Strategy consultant Adrien Book laid out the problem
    pretty well in a Medium post that followed Web5’s announcement: “Jack seems
    to want to keep the taste of Web3 without the calories. It’s like a high
    school student saying ‘yeah, but communism has never been REALLY tried as
    it’s meant to be.’ It’s naive.”
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/learn/what-is-desk-coindesks-social-token-explained/
    At CoinDesk, we’re not just chronicling the business model transformation that
    digital assets and the blockchain have made possible – we’re actively
    participating in it.At Consensus 2021, a virtual event, we beta-tested DESK, an
    experiment in using tokenized rewards to incentivize engagement and
    community-building, garnering positive feedback from our audience. At Consensus
    2022, CoinDesk relaunched DESK as a full-fledged on-chain social token, making
    it a core part of the experience at our first live event since 2019.In December
    2022, CoinDesk expanded the functionality of DESK to integrate the token into
    the broader user experience. Now, readers can earn DESK by reading articles,
    watching videos and more on CoinDesk.com.Read More: DESK Upgrade on CoinDesk’s
    Website Offers Tokenized Reader ExperienceBelow is everything you need to know
    about DESK and how to use it. This post will be updated regularly as we build
    out the DESK program, so check back every so often for the latest
    information.DESK FAQ:What is DESK?DESK is CoinDesk’s social token.What is
    DESK’s mission?DESK is designed to build a community around the CoinDesk brand
    and to reward our audience for engaging with our content.DESK’s ethos is
    modeled on the founding principles of blockchain technology: openness,
    community, empowerment and innovation. We hope to use DESK to create a feedback
    loop with our users to help us build out an ecosystem together.How can I get
    DESK?As of this update, you can start earning DESK by creating an account at
    coindesk.com and engaging with our content, such as reading Consensus Magazine
    articles. Other ways to earn DESK include:Listening to episodes of Carpe
    ConsensusWatching select CDTV episodesVisiting the DESK HubEngaging in chats on
    our Discord serverAt Consensus 2023, we'll have many in-person ways to earn
    DESK, such as 2022's Easter egg airdrops around the festival. Stay tuned!Cool,
    so what can I do with DESK?Unlock the token-gated Discord serverUsers with at
    least 1 DESK can vote for our special community polls and earn DESK for
    engaging.You can tip other users with DESKAt Consensus 2022, attendees were able
    to redeem DESK for such rewards as:A drink at the barFood from nearby vendors
    that have partnered with CoinDeskMerchandise, such as hoodies or
    T-shirtsNon-fungible tokens (NFT) from our online marketplaceSpecial on-site
    offers from Consensus exhibitors and partnersUnique experiences, like playing
    "Horse" basketball with Spencer Dinwiddie or chess with Garry Kasparov.On what
    blockchain is DESK?DESK runs on Polygon, a sidechain, or parallel network, to
    Ethereum.Why isn’t DESK on Ethereum proper?Polygon helps us provide a gasless
    experience because of the lower costs per transaction.What do I need to do
    before the next Consensus to be able to spend DESK?You’ll need to set up a
    cryptocurrency wallet that works with Polygon. MetaMask and Coinbase Wallet are
    the easiest ones to use for beginners.Read more: Get Started With DESK: How to
    Set Up Your WalletDo I need to create a CoinDesk account to use DESK?Yes. With
    the new release in Dec. 2022, you will be required to have a coindesk.com
    account.What is the problem you’re trying to solve?In the Web2 era, content
    creators – be they writers, artists, filmmakers, publishers, media outlets or
    event organizers – have become beholden to the algorithms of intermediating
    platforms, complicating their efforts to directly reach and engage audiences.
    Simply put, the web ended up replacing one set of gatekeepers (major newspapers,
    magazines and television networks) with another (social media and search
    engines).We’re hopeful, like many others, that crypto and Web3 solutions
    involving tokens and new data and governance models will facilitate a more
    direct relationship with our audience and the expansion of a community of
    engaged participants that is independent of the platforms.We believe Consensus,
    which moves the content creator-audience relationship out of the digital realm
    and into a physical space where internet gatekeepers have less influence, is a
    great place to experiment with new tokens and incentive models in pursuit of
    this goal.We hope DESK generates a community that engages year-round in rich
    interaction with each other and with CoinDesk articles and other content and
    then comes back each year to gather in person at this cornerstone annual
    event.Why do you need a blockchain for loyalty points?Social tokens allow for
    community-driven tech by creating a feedback loop between product creators and
    product users. This will allow the DESK team to get real-time data on engagement
    based on DESK usage, and use that data to iterate on the DESK ecosystem,
    aligning it more and more to user needs and wants.Initially, the blockchain
    provides us with data on DESK usage. The blockchain also discourages insider
    deals or under-the-table giveaways because the public ledger would lay bare any
    such misbehavior. This means everyone who claims NFTs or physical rewards had to
    put in the work (engaging with our content) to earn their reward.Simply put:
    DESK will be used to align our efforts as a media and events company to the
    wants and needs of our audience.Will DESK increase in value?No. DESK is not a
    currency, nor is it a financial asset or investment product of any kind. It is
    not for speculation and will not make anyone rich. This is not a vehicle for
    anyone’s savings nor is it a money-making opportunity.Why doesn’t DESK have
    monetary value?It is a reward token, analogous to airline frequent-flier miles,
    hotel guest points and the like. CoinDesk will be taking strong measures to
    discourage its use for speculation or trading.By providing a system where users
    can contribute to the functioning of a collective, digital system, the
    blockchain lays the foundation for a new type of organization: the tokenized
    community. We've seen examples of this over the past few years with NFT
    communities and distributed autonomous organizations (DAO). To highlight this
    blockchain use case, we decided to focus on activating and expanding social
    utility to create community value, instead of focusing on monetization.Can I
    mine DESK?No. DESK can only be earned as a reward for engaging with CoinDesk
    events and content, or as a tip from fellow users.Can I stake my DESK to earn
    more tokens?No. See above.Is CoinDesk using DESK to raise funds?No. We're not
    selling the token at all, just distributing it to audience members as a reward
    for their engagement.If the token is on mainnet, what’s to stop anyone from
    listing it on an exchange or trading it?Listing, buying or trading DESK is
    against our terms of use because we want the rewards and value to come from
    inside the ecosystem. We reserve the right to ban accounts and blacklist wallet
    addresses that violate our terms of use.Banning? Blacklisting? That doesn’t
    sound very decentralized. What gives?It’s important to remember that not all
    blockchain assets are fully decentralized or claim to be so. Ether, the native
    currency of Ethereum, is completely user-controlled, but ERC-20 tokens built on
    top of the network may or may not be, depending on how the issuer designs it.
    For example, a number of regulated stablecoins are ERC-20 tokens, and their
    issuers have the power to freeze funds of suspect addresses to comply with law
    enforcement requests.So, no, DESK is not decentralized, nor does it purport to
    be. It is not competing with bitcoin or ether.OK, but if DESK has no monetary
    value how did taco stands or bars in Austin accept it during Consensus 2022?Part
    of the value DESK provides is what CoinDesk injects into the ecosystem when we
    want to reward our users for engaging at a deeper level. This means being able
    to use your DESK to redeem food and drinks at establishments that CoinDesk
    partners with on the ground.Are there gas (on-chain computation) fees for using
    DESK?No. The DESK ecosystem is 100% gasless.How?CoinDesk is covering the gas
    costs on Polygon.What if I got DESK in 2021 at the virtual Consensus? Can I
    still use it?Because DESK has transitioned from testnet to mainnet, DESK
    collected in 2021 is no longer usable. That being said, we value the feedback
    and effort from DESK's beta testers.Who are the 'Piranhas'?Piranhas are the
    fledgling community that formed around DESK during Consensus 2021. They started
    their own Discord channel and created memes about the token. The phenomenon was
    a clear validation for CoinDesk of the concept.At Consensus 2022, the official
    hub of the DESK community was CoinDesk’s Discord server, where we welcomed the
    Piranhas and newcomers alike.Who built DESK?CoinDesk did, with the help of
    several key external partners, including Coinvise and others.Which wallets
    support DESK?As mentioned, MetaMask and Coinbase Wallet are easiest to use, but
    any wallet that works on Polygon can be used.How do I connect my DESK wallet to
    my CoinDesk account?Navigate to the DESK dashboard. Select "Create or Connect
    Wallet" and approve the transaction in your wallet.Are DESK transactions
    anonymous?Depends. CoinDesk can associate identities with wallets only when
    users create accounts on desk.coindesk.com. We will not use this data for
    anything other than authenticating users when they sign on or distributing DESK
    rewards, we will never sell it, and we will protect user information
    assiduously. (See our privacy policy.) DESK transactions will appear on DESK's
    page on the Polyscan block explorer, but only the wallet addresses will be
    displayed.Do I need to report DESK transactions on my taxes?DESK has no inherent
    monetary value, but, whether or not you live in a jurisdiction where utility
    tokens are deemed taxable, you should consult a tax professional if you have
    concerns.How do I keep up with DESK updates?We’ll keep a record of airdrops,
    product developments and other updates critical to DESK’s roadmap and
    tokenomics in our DESK product blog.You can also keep abreast of DESK updates in
    our Discord server.What’s the future of DESK?The latest release is only the
    beginning in developing our Web3 model for DESK on coindesk.com. We'll be
    working on improving our wallet functionality, currently in beta, and looking
    forward to seeing what data and reader feedback reveal as to how to continue
    improving the experience
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/learn/what-are-fully-backed-reserves/
    Regular banks do not actually hold all of your money. They lend out most of your
    deposits in an attempt to eke out returns from financial markets. This works,
    for the most part, because the bank insures deposits with the federal government
    and because the bank widely diversifies its exposure to risk to ensure that it
    won’t be caught short in the event of a financial crash.This system
    occasionally fails in traditional finance (see: Lehman) but fails frequently in
    crypto. The government does not insure deposits to crypto platforms and the
    platforms often do not manage risk particularly well (see: FTX, Voyager Digital,
    Celsius Network), making high-risk bets that end in catastrophe.Read More: Proof
    of Reserves: Could it Have Prevented the FTX Meltdown?After so many platforms
    squandered customer funds, crypto traders are thinking twice about depositing
    funds to crypto exchanges and lending institutions that “rehypothecate”
    uninsured deposits – which means they repurpose customer money and lend the
    funds out in the markets. A safer bet looks like trading on platforms that
    “fully back” their reserves. But what does this really mean, and should such
    claims be taken with a pinch of salt?Fully backed, explainedWhen a financial
    product, such as a stablecoin or depositary institution, claims to “fully
    back” its reserves, it means that it has stored enough money behind a product,
    like a stablecoin or a customer’s trading account, to support its worth.So, a
    crypto exchange that “fully backs” its reserves should always be able to pay
    out customer withdrawals, no matter the state of the market. One such example is
    Coinbase, which does not lend out its customers’ funds without their express
    permission, meaning it should always have enough money on hand to prevent a bank
    run.A stablecoin that “fully backs” its reserves is always able to fulfill
    conversions to the original asset, no matter what. One example is wBTC, or
    wrapped bitcoin, which holds real bitcoin (BTC) in a cold wallet, then issues an
    equal amount of an Ethereum-based version of the coin that trades as an ERC-20
    token.Fully backed, however, does not necessarily mean that assets are held one
    to one. That claim refers to the idea that if you, say, give me a dollar, I’ll
    hold that dollar as a dollar and won’t turn it into something else. Lots of
    stablecoins that claim to be fully backed, like U.S.-dollar stablecoin USDC, are
    not backed one to one.This is because the companies that issue USDC hold the
    deposits of real U.S. dollars in “cash and cash equivalents.” Cash
    equivalents refer to U.S. Treasury bonds, which is debt issued by the U.S.
    Treasury Department. These bonds, which pay small returns to holders over time,
    are close enough to the worth of actual U.S. dollars that the market accepts
    bonds being essentially worth the same.But “fully backed” does not always
    mean that the backing can withstand financial shocks. U.S. dollar stablecoin
    tether (USDT) also claims that its reserves are fully backed, but this backing
    is secured by “other assets and receivables from loans made by Tether [the
    issuing company] to third parties.” So, USDT may be fully backed, but it is
    partially backed by loans to other crypto companies.Until October 2022, USDT was
    also backed by commercial paper – short-term commercial debt to other
    companies – and moved those funds to U.S. Treasurys. The concern about the
    commercial paper was that nobody knew which companies Tether was using to back
    USDT, so it was impossible to determine the worth of that backing. What’s
    more, its “fully backed” claim has historically turned out not to be true
    after it emerged in 2019 that USDT was, at one point, only 74% backed. As wrote
    the Commodity Futures Trading Commission's Dawn D. Stump, the claim that it was
    backed to the U.S. dollar was “not 100% true, 100% of the time.”Read more:
    What Is Tether? How USDT Works and What Backs Its ValueSome stablecoins do not
    fully back their reserves, which has led to catastrophic results in some cases.
    The popular algorithmic stablecoin UST, for instance, crashed in spectacular
    fashion, wiping billions from the market.On the opposite end of the spectrum,
    U.S. dollar stablecoin DAI overcollateralizes its reserves with crypto, meaning
    it has more than enough crypto on hand to back its coin. DAI has survived
    several market crashes.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/business/2023/11/16/strike-rolls-out-bitcoin-purchases-to-users-globally/
    Bitcoin firm Strike has expanded its services on a global scale, now allowing
    users in 36 countries (soon to be 65+) beyond the U.S. to buy bitcoin through
    the app, founder Jack Mallers announced in a blog post Thursday.“We’re
    rolling out a highly anticipated feature that Bitcoiners worldwide have
    requested for years,” Mallers wrote. “Now, Strike users around the globe can
    experience the ease of buying bitcoin directly through our platform.”Unlike
    the U.S. where there is no fee for bitcoin purchases, global users will incur a
    3.9% fee on their buys. Mallers hopes to lower the cost eventually, but points
    out that this fee is lower than most of Strike's competitors.Among other
    initiatives announced today, Strike is partnering with crypto payments firm
    Bitrefill, which uses the Lightning Network – Bitcoin’s secondary payment
    layer – to allow global users to make everyday purchases instantly and nearly
    free of charge.Edited by Stephen Alpher.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/learn/blockfis-rise-and-fall-a-timeline/
    Crypto lender BlockFi is kaput. The platform, which offered high yields on
    crypto deposits, has filed for bankruptcy protection. It’s the latest company
    to fall after the catastrophic collapse of FTX. Indeed, bankruptcy filings show
    that BlockFi had $355 million worth of cryptocurrencies frozen in FTX and relied
    on the firm for its credit facility. But how did it all go so wrong? CoinDesk
    has compiled a timeline to help you piece together the picture.October 2017 –
    BlockFi beginsZac Prince and Flori Marquez founded BlockFi in October 2017 with
    a lofty mission: provide credit services to the cryptocurrency market. Prince,
    the CEO, had worked in sales before founding BlockFi. Marquez, the company’s
    chief operating officer, managed financial portfolios for Bond Street, a
    small-time lender that Goldman Sachs acquired in 2017, before founding BlockFi.
    The firm set up shop in Jersey City, New Jersey, and in subsequent years
    expanded to New York, Singapore, Poland and Argentina. In January 2018, BlockFi
    launched its first offering: loans of U.S. dollars backed by cryptocurrencies.
    Simply, clients could deposit bitcoin (BTC) or ether (ETH) and take out loans in
    fiat against that crypto collateral.February 2018 to December 2018 –
    BlockFi’s first funding roundsVenture capital money followed swiftly. In
    February 2018, BlockFi raised $1.55 million in a seed round led by ConsenSys
    Ventures. In July 2018, it raised a hefty $52.5 million in a funding round led
    by Mike Novogratz’s Galaxy Digital. And at the end of 2018, BlockFi raised
    another $4 million by issuing convertible notes, with Akuna Capital the main
    buyer.March 2019 – BlockFi offers compound interest accountFlush with cash,
    the startup got to work. In March 2019 it launched a crypto deposit account that
    would reinvest earnings from bitcoin or ether deposits and provide an
    opportunity to earn compound interest at a 6.2% annual percentage yield (APY).
    BlockFi adjusted these rates over time; oin May 2019 it almost halved the
    interest rate on ETH deposits. The risk of the high-interest account, as
    explained to CoinDesk, was that it "doesn’t come with the backing of the
    federal government like a savings account at a bank does.” As the market
    heated up over the next few years and BlockFi continued to grow, that didn’t
    seem to hold people back from depositing their money with the company.August
    2019 - Series A fundingThe firm’s next huge cash injection came in August
    2019, when BlockFi raised $18.3 million in a Series A funding round led by Peter
    Thiel’s Valar Ventures. They were joined by Winklevoss Capital, Galaxy
    Digital, ConsenSys, Akuna Capital and others. Earlier that year, BlockFi reached
    a milestone of having over $50 million deposited in its interest-bearing
    accounts.December 2019 – BlockFi expands into tradingIn December 2019, BlockFi
    got into the crypto trading game, offering an unusual model that charged zero
    fees on purchases and sales. Instead of charging trading fees, BlockFi profited
    by selling trading data to institutional crypto firms that, in turn, provided
    liquidity to BlockFi, similar to Robinhood’s business model. “Market makers
    want the information about what trades are happening, and they get it by having
    relationships with as many venues as they can support to receive that order
    flow,” BlockFi’s CEO said.February 2020 - Series B funding roundPeter
    Thiel’s Valar Ventures led BlockFi’s $30 million Series B funding round in
    February 2020, with repeat investors including Akuna Capital and new investors
    including HashKey Capital, which CEO Prince noted as key to helping “BlockFi
    expand into Singapore” and the Asia-Pacific region.March 2020 - Cash on-ramps
    arriveBlockFi partnered with Silvergate Bank to allow customers to utilize cash
    deposits via wire transfer to buy bitcoin. Prior to the move, BlockFi was
    limited to “crypto payment rails” such as stablecoins. Prince said he had
    been inundated by “requests every day from our existing clients, and also from
    folks who aren't already cryptocurrency owners.” The company disclosed the
    previous month it had $650 million of assets on its platform.May 2020 - BlockFi
    suffers minor hackAll was going well. Then: a hack! In 2020, a single attacker
    targeted an employee’s phone with a “SIM swap” that tricked the mobile
    carrier into activating the employee’s phone on another device. This allowed
    the hacker to gain access to some of BlockFi’s retail marketing systems. No
    funds were lost, but the attacker managed to access confidential information
    about BlockFi’s customers.August 2020 – BlockFi gets more fundingIn August
    2020, BlockFi raised $50 million in a Series C round led by Morgan Creek
    Digital. At the time, Zac Prince said the lender held $1.5 billion in assets and
    made a little under $10 million in revenue each month. National Basketball
    Association star Matthew Dellavedova was among the investors.October 2020 –
    BlockFi makes a risky betIn October 2020, BlockFi invested big into
    Grayscale’s Bitcoin Trust (Grayscale is owned by CoinDesk's parent, Digital
    Currency Group), taking a 5% stake of the $4.8 billion fund. The other big whale
    invested in GBTC at the time? Hedge fund Three Arrows Capital, which had a 6%
    stake as of June 2020.BlockFi continued to expand its stake in GBTC, to $1.7
    billion in GBTC by February 2021. Unfortunately, it later turned out that it was
    difficult to get money out of GBTC. In addition, as of writing, shares in the
    trust trade at a huge discount to bitcoin.January 2021 - BlockFi’s bitcoin
    ambitionsEarly in 2021, BlockFi registered its own Bitcoin Trust with the U.S.
    Securities and Exchange Commission, putting it in direct competition with
    Grayscale’s product. The fund offered a lower management fee and partnered
    with Fidelity Digital Asset Services to custody the assets. In November of that
    same year, it filed for approval for a spot bitcoin exchange-traded fund.March
    2021 – BlockFi gets new funding, $3B valuationAll was going well for BlockFi.
    With bitcoin’s soaring price hitting all-time highs (bitcoin crossed the
    $60,000 mark for the first time in March 2021), BlockFi raised $350 million,
    giving the company a valuation of $3 billion. It held $15 billion in assets and
    aimed to increase its staff to 500 people by the end of the year. It said it had
    225,000 users, up from 10,000 in late 2019. What could go wrong?July 2021 –
    Bad timing amid an onslaught of cease and desist ordersNew Jersey’s Bureau of
    Securities was the first to deliver a big blow. The state’s financial
    regulator claimed BlockFi’s interest accounts amounted to sales of an
    “unregistered security” and issued a ban on creating new interest-bearing
    accounts. Alabama issued its own notice to the lender shortly after, and Texas
    joined on the same day. Two days later, Vermont lodged its complaint, and at the
    end of the month Kentucky ordered the lender to stop signing up new interest
    account customers.The CEO called on the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
    to look into the matter. So the national securities regulator did exactly that
    – and it didn’t end well for BlockFi (we’ll get to that next). It was poor
    timing for BlockFi, which was looking to raise $500 million in a Series E and
    was launching a Visa rewards credit card.February 2022 – BlockFi settles with
    the SECIn February, BlockFi settled with the SEC for $100 million over its
    high-yield lending product. It registered with the SEC, but from mid-February
    stopped offering the interest account to new clients in the U.S., and prevented
    existing U.S. clients from adding more money to their accounts. “Today’s
    settlement makes clear that crypto markets must comply with time-tested
    securities laws,” SEC Chair Gary Gensler said in a statement.Summer 2022 –
    BlockFi spirals downwardIn June, BlockFi’s valuation sank to $1 billion in a
    “down round” – a third of its $3 billion valuation the previous March,
    when it raised $350 million. At the end of June, the lender held $1.8 billion in
    open loans and $600 million of exposure. In particular, BlockFi had made huge
    loans to the huge crypto hedge fund Three Arrows Capital, which officially filed
    for bankruptcy protection on July 1. Three Arrows had failed after being
    overexposed to the collapsed stablecoin ecosystem, Terra; BlockFi, according to
    reports, had liquidated the hedge fund's collateral before its bankruptcy. In
    the same month, bitcoin fell below $20,000. A month later, BlockFi’s main
    rivals, Voyager Digital and Celsius Network, also filed for bankruptcy
    protection.In dire straits, BlockFi received a $400 million line of credit from
    crypto exchange FTX later that summer. The exchange also won the right for its
    U.S. unit to buy BlockFi FTX US almost bought the lender for just $25 million,
    and in August could have bought the company for as little as $15 million if
    certain key terms weren’t met, such as receiving SEC clearance to operate its
    yield-generating services in the U.S.November 2022 – FTX collapse slams
    BlockFi, firm files for bankruptcyAt the start of the month, FTX itself
    collapsed after CoinDesk published a story based on private financial documents
    on Nov. 2 that poked holes in the balance sheet of FTX sister company, trading
    firm Alameda Research. It took only nine more days for FTX to completely melt
    down, and it went to bankruptcy court on Nov. 11.That was bad for BlockFi, which
    needed FTX’s credit facility to remain afloat. Late on Nov. 10, BlockFi paused
    customer withdrawals amid “the lack of clarity” about FTX. On Nov. 11,
    California’s financial regulator revoked BlockFi’s lending license.BlockFi
    started preparing for its bankruptcy filing shortly after that. On Nov. 28, it
    officially filed for protection under Chapter 11, leaving over 100,000 creditors
    in the lurch. Filings later revealed that Alameda had defaulted on $680 million
    worth of loans to BlockFi. After filing in the bankruptcy court, BlockFi sued
    Sam Bankman-Fried's Emergent Fidelity Technologies for its Robinhood shares,
    which were pledged to BlockFi as collateral for a loan.In the first bankruptcy
    hearing, lawyers for BlockFi said the lender held $355 million in crypto on FTX.
    All the while, one question looms: Will customers get anything back?Read More:
    Latest BlockFi Stories
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2023/11/16/bitcoin-dips-5-to-under-36k-as-crypto-rally-runs-into-wall-liquidating-340m-in-2-days/
    The bitcoin (BTC) yo-yo of the past week continued on Thursday, with Wednesday's
    rally completely reversed, leaving the crypto down 5% for the session and
    trading under $36,000.It was just 24 hours ago that bitcoin was surging and
    within a few dollars of crossing the $38,000 level for the first time in more
    than 18 months.As has been a familiar trend during the upswing over the past six
    weeks, a wave of sell orders was likely sitting close to a round number. When
    bitcoin approached $38,000, the sell orders took over, sending the price lower.
    That, in turn, triggered liquidations of leveraged long positions, sending the
    price hurtling further downward.Indeed, the crypto market's two-day
    rollercoaster hit derivatives traders heavily, liquidating some $340 million of
    leveraged positions over the period, CoinGlass data shows.Total crypto
    liquidations per day (CoinGlass)SOL, LINK give up gains; AVAX extends rallyMost
    cryptocurrencies followed bitcoin lower during the day, with ether (ETH)
    dropping 4% over the past 24 hours to $1,960. Solana's (SOL) and Chainlink's
    native token (LINK) declined 6% and 9%, respectively.Fading the plunge today was
    Avalanche's native token (AVAX), extending yesterday's double-digit rally with
    another 7% gain.The CoinDesk Market Index (CMI), which tracks the performance of
    a basket of almost 200 cryptocurrencies, dropped 4% during the day.Spot bitcoin
    ETF delay slows momentumThe U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)
    Wednesday delayed a decision about HashDex's spot BTC ETF application,
    increasing the odds that it won't approve any such vehicles this year.Crypto
    market analytics firm K33 Research noted earlier this week in a report said that
    a lack of an SEC decision this week could halt momentum in the crypto market
    until the next deadline early in 2024.Heightened optimism about spot ETFs and
    what are hoped to be sizable institutional and retail inflows helped propel
    bitcoin from $25,000 in September to just shy of $38,000. There still could be
    news this week as Franklin Templeton has a decision deadline of tomorrow. Few,
    though, are expecting anything except another delay from the SEC.Edited by
    Stephen Alpher.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/business/2023/11/16/bitcoin-is-coming-to-sushi-as-defi-platform-expands-to-zetachain/
    Decentralized finance (DeFi) platform Sushi said it is expanding to layer-1
    blockchain ZetaChain to add native bitcoin (BTC) support.The addition of
    ZetaChain, which raised $27 million earlier this year, introduces the first
    native bitcoin trading in DeFi, enabling users to swap the largest
    cryptocurrency across 30 networks without wrapping, Sushi said in a release.
    Wrapping a coin allows it to be used on a different blockchain than the one it
    was originally issued on."We're aiming to empower bitcoin holders to engage with
    key DeFi primitives, such as trading, along with more sophisticated applications
    like lending and borrowing," Jonathan Covey, a core contributor to ZetaChain,
    said in an interview with CoinDesk. By allowing bitcoin to be used with Sushi,
    it goes beyond its traditional use case as just a store of value, he
    said."Bitcoin is the largest liquidity pool, and there's a lot of opportunity
    for developers to involve that in all sorts of Defi applications," Covey
    said.Over the past month, bitcoin's price and trading volume have surged amid
    mounting anticipation that approval of a bitcoin exchange-traded fund (ETF) is
    coming. The ZetaChain team says they have been working on this for years, and
    it's just a coincidence the release is happening at the same time.Ankur
    Nandwani, founder of ZetaChain and co-founder of Basic Attention Token,
    explained that previous attempts like Colored Coins and Mastercoin laid the
    groundwork for their current innovations, and noted the growing community of
    developers working on bitcoin utility."We're at an inflection point where we're
    moving beyond merely recording bitcoin transactions as hashes on the blockchain,
    to developing applications that utilize actual bitcoin," he said.Edited by
    Sheldon Reback.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2023/11/16/cardano-dogecoin-lead-price-gains-among-major-cryptocurrencies-as-bitcoin-nears-38k/
    The latest crypto market spurt added 4.6% to overall capitalization in the past
    24 hours, taking the total to $1.44 trillion, levels not seen since May 2022.
    Bitcoin (BTC) and several altcoins returned to the highs they tested a week ago,
    reversing nearly all losses from a $300 million liquidation event on
    Tuesday.Cardano’s ADA and dogecoin (DOGE) led gains among the top 10 tokens by
    market capitalization, surging as much as 12% without any immediate catalysts.
    Liquidations on the futures tracking these majors were lower than usual,
    suggesting the price action was primarily driven by spot buying. The CoinDesk
    Market Index, a market capitalization-weighted measure of the digital asset
    market, rose 3.8%.Solana’s SOL climbed to as high as $67, extending a
    week-long ascent amid a favorable view of the blockchain and waning concerns of
    an impending FTX sale of the token that would release more SOL into the
    market.Avalanche’s AVAX jumped 24% as developer Ava Labs said it was working
    with banking giant JPMorgan on an upcoming portfolio management product offered
    in Singapore.Some traders pointed out that gains in the market mirrored those of
    traditional assets such as stocks, even as recent price movements suggested
    early signs of decoupling.“Once again, the dynamics of crypto and equity
    markets have diverged,” FxPro markets analyst Alex Kuptsikevich said in a note
    to CoinDesk. “However, it should be noted that this seemingly negative
    correlation only works in the short term, as both asset classes have been rising
    steadily since October.”Kuptsikevich said that bitcoin bulls were “not
    giving up” as the price tested the $38,000 level again on Thursday, adding the
    move that likely “opened the way to $46,000.”Edited by Sheldon Reback.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2023/11/16/first-mover-americas-sec-delays-decision-on-hashdexs-etf-application/
    This article originally appeared in First Mover, CoinDesk’s daily newsletter
    putting the latest moves in crypto markets in context. Subscribe to get it in
    your inbox every day.Latest PricesTop StoriesThe U.S. Securities and Exchange
    Commission (SEC) is delaying a decision on an application by Hashdex to convert
    its existing bitcoin futures exchange-traded fund (ETF) into a spot vehicle. The
    agency also delayed action on Grayscale's attempt to launch a new futures-based
    ether ETF. Hashdex filed to convert its bitcoin futures ETF into a spot bitcoin
    ETF in September. Grayscale (a subsidiary of CoinDesk parent Digital Currency
    Group) filed for its ether futures ETF that same month. Both filings faced
    initial deadlines of Nov. 17 for a decision, but the SEC said it was extending
    this window, according to a pair of Wednesday filings.The Philippines government
    said it plans to raise 10 billion pesos ($180 million) through the sale of a
    tokenized treasury bond next week, in the latest move by a government to embrace
    blockchain technology to digitize its domestic debt market. The planned sale
    follows an offering from Hong Kong, which issued an 800 million-Hong Kong dollar
    ($103 million) tokenized green bond in February. The Philippines Bureau of the
    Treasury intends to confirm the interest rate of the one-year bond on Nov. 20,
    with the issue and settlement date set for Nov. 22. It reserved the right to
    change the mechanics of the issue.Bitcoin’s (BTC) bullish momentum will likely
    remain intact heading into the end of the year, lifting prices to the $40,000
    mark, according to Markus Thielen, research head at crypto services provider
    Matrixport and founder of analytics portal DeFi Research. “Bitcoin will reach
    $40,000 – if not even $45,000 – by the year’s end,” Thielen said in a
    note shared with CoinDesk, citing options market positioning and dovish Federal
    Reserve expectations as catalysts for continued price gains. The cryptocurrency
    has more than doubled this year, with prices rising nearly 40% in the past four
    weeks alone. The recent bullish action spurred demand for call options, or
    derivatives giving the purchaser the right to snap up the underlying asset at a
    predetermined price later.Chart of the DayThe chart shows the 24-hour change in
    open interest in futures tied to the top 30 cryptocurrencies by market
    value.Open interest in DOGE and AVAX has increased by nearly 20%, while OI in
    BTC has declined by 2.5%.An influx of new money into non-serious tokens like
    DOGE and alternative coins suggests an increased risk appetite in the
    market.Source: Velo Data- Omkar GodboleTrending PostsU.S. Lawmakers Urge
    Treasury to Revise Proposed Crypto Tax RulesSingapore Central Bank to Start
    'Live' Wholesale CBDC TrialsDo Kwon's Appeal in Fake Passport Case Denied by
    Montenegro High CourtEdited by Sheldon Reback.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2023/11/15/protocol-latest-tech-news-crypto-blockchain/
    Nov. 16: Fhenix, which announced a $7M fundraising in September to build a
    "confidential blockchain" powered by fully homomorphic encryption or (FHE),
    disclosed Thursday that it is "introducing FHE Rollups to boost privacy on
    Ethereum and similar networks." According to a message from the team: "These
    rollups enable secure on-chain transactions and private applications, letting
    developers craft confidential layer-2 networks while staying compatible with
    Ethereum." Fhenix founder Guy Zyskind told CoinDesk in an interview that "We're
    going to have our canonical Fhenix L2 mainnet," but also "We're trying to be the
    encrypted rollup stack" that builders can use to create their own networks.
    "Developers are not going to know there's crazy math and encryption under the
    hood," he said.DLN, BloXroute to Create High-Speed Cross-Chain Intents
    NetworkNov. 16: DLN, which stands for deSwap Liquidity Network, a cross-chain
    trading infrastructure build on deBridge, has entered into a strategic
    partnership with bloXroute, a DeFi performance provider, "to provide MEV
    searchers, institutional DeFi traders and projects with lightning-fast
    intents-based cross-chain value exchange," according to the team: "Thanks to the
    synergy between DLN high performance infrastructure and the fast
    transaction-propagation capabilities of bloXroute’s blockchain distribution
    network, users and integrating dApps will be able to use bloXroute API for the
    fastest cross-chain interactions available."Kinetex Gets Strategic Investment to
    Build on GnosisNov. 16: Kinetex Network, a decentralized platform for
    cross-chain trading, announced the close of a strategic funding round, a
    "seven-figure sum," led by Factor and Gnosis Chain, to build on Gnosis Chain, a
    community-led EVM layer-1, according to the team: "This partnership empowers
    Kinetex to refine its groundbreaking trading approach to transferring liquidity
    between networks that eliminates the need to store assets in pools and leverages
    zero-knowledge (Zk) technology to achieve validation without relying on third
    parties.... Kinetex plans to launch its public testnet on Gnosis Chain early
    next year. Scheduled to last three months, the test phase is geared towards
    identifying bugs and refining the user experience."Protocol Village is a regular
    feature of The Protocol, our weekly newsletter exploring the tech behind crypto,
    one block at a time. Sign up here to get it in your inbox every Wednesday.
    Project teams can submit updates here. For previous versions of Protocol
    Village, please go here.Nocturne, Protocol for On-Chain Private Accounts,
    Deploys v1 to EthereumNov. 16: Nocturne, a protocol enabling on-chain private
    accounts, has announced the successful deployment of Nocturne v1 to Ethereum
    mainnet. According to the team: "This marks a significant milestone in the
    journey towards a more private and accessible Ethereum. For the first time,
    users will have a compatible and easy-to-use product resembling a private
    onchain account."CORRECTION (Nov. 16, 11:17 UTC): Corrects spelling of Kinetex
    in headline, first line.Edited by Bradley Keoun.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/business/2023/11/16/bitcoin-focused-ordinals-project-taproot-wizards-raises-75m-in-seed-round/
    Taproot Wizards, a Bitcoin-focused Ordinals project, raised $7.5 million in seed
    funding to try and "make bitcoin magical again."The investment round was led by
    crypto-focused venture capital firm Standard Crypto, with contributions from
    Geometry, Collider Ventures, StarkWare, UTXO Management, Bitcoin Frontier Fund,
    Masterkey and Newman Capital, according to a post on Taproot Wizards' X account
    on Thursday.Taproot Wizards, which describes itself as "magic internet JPEGs",
    offers a collection of Microsoft Paint images of wizards harking back to a 2013
    bitcoin meme: "magic internet money."Co-founder Udi Wertheimer claimed to have
    mined "the largest block and largest transaction in Bitcoin history," with the
    minting of such an image in February.The Ordinals protocol enables users to
    inscribe data into satoshis – the smallest units of bitcoin – in effect
    creating non-fungible tokens (NFTs) on the Bitcoin network. The protocol debuted
    at the start of this year, becoming a divisive issue for the Bitcoin community,
    with some participants saying they are pointlessly congesting the network.Nearly
    1.9 million inscriptions were uploaded to the blockchain in the two weeks
    spanning the end of October and the start of November, driving network fees to
    nearly $7, up some 970% from the start of August.For such reasons, Ordinals will
    continue to have its detractors, but Taproot Wizards' funding round suggests
    it's not short of fans either.Read More: Lightning Labs Rolls Out 'Taproot
    Assets,' to Make Bitcoin 'Multi-Asset' NetworkEdited by Sheldon Reback.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/business/2023/11/16/255m-pyth-tokens-to-be-airdropped-to-90k-wallets-next-week/
    Decentralized finance (DeFi) users will receive an airdrop from pricing oracles
    network Pyth next week with 255 million tokens set to be issued to 90,000
    wallets.Pyth network competes with the likes of Chainlink. It will work by
    gathering first-party pricing data from exchanges, trading firms and
    institutions before relaying that data to smart contracts or clients.The
    network's native token PYTH will initially have a circulating supply of 1.5
    billion, with 85% of the total supply being locked between six and 42
    months.Users can claim the token on Nov. 20 at 14:00 UTC. The claim process will
    stay open for 90 days.Eligible recipients of the airdrop are those who
    interacted with decentralized apps that use Pyth data or active community
    members who interacted with the network's social media channels.Chainlink
    currently dominates the price oracle sector, boasting a 45% market share with
    $14.7 billion in total value secured (TVS), according to DefiLlama. Pyth by
    comparison has $1.57 billion TVS across 120 protocols.Pyth uses primary sources,
    as opposed to Chainlink, which uses aggregators like CoinMarketCap, according to
    a Pyth blog post.Several exchanges including OKX and and HTX have announced that
    they will be listing PYTH with trading set to begin on Nov. 20.Edited by Stephen
    Alpher.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2023/11/16/sam-bankman-frieds-trial-may-be-over-but-the-bahamas-is-living-its-own-trial/
    Nassau, The Bahamas — In early 2022, Ryan Austin was part of a non-profit
    foundation devoted to teaching people in The Bahamas how to code. One of the
    early donations it received was from FTX, Sam Bankman-Fried's now-defunct
    cryptocurrency exchange that operated from the nation. The $30,000 contribution
    was made to train public school teachers in coding. About 90 teachers were shown
    how to teach public school kids to code during the summer in a kind of boot
    camp.Austin went back to the FTX team with statistics reflecting the program's
    success with a request: Let's do this again."I think they were quite impressed
    and thought of using our data to boost their CSR Corporate Social
    Responsibility," he told CoinDesk. FTX gave Austin and his team a pat on the
    back and the kind of goodbye that said, "We'll be in touch." That didn't
    happen.Instead, in November 2022, the FTX empire dramatically and rapidly
    collapsed into bankruptcy after a chain of events triggered by a CoinDesk report
    that raised questions about FTX's financials. On Nov. 2, 2023, a jury found FTX
    founder Bankman-Fried guilty of seven counts of fraud and conspiracy tied to the
    exchange's operation.Many decisions that led to "one of the biggest financial
    frauds in American history" took place outside the U.S., in The Bahamas, where
    FTX's leadership set up shop in 2021."There was a wave, an excitement about FTX
    in the air," a nostalgic Austin told CoinDesk. "Businesses got a boost from
    their existence here. Employees were paid well and there was a lot of excitement
    around crypto and then suddenly, everyone was trying to figure out what the hell
    happened."Empty street in downtown Nassau, The Bahamas (Amitoj
    Singh/CoinDesk)Pre-collapseIn October 2023, as Bankman-Fried fought for his
    innocence in a Manhattan courthouse, downtown Nassau, the capital city of The
    Bahamas, appeared to be "a ghost town," though that wasn't entirely reflective
    of its economy."There's no Bahamas without tourism. It's the slow season. No
    cruise ship today. On Wednesday we had six (so it was different). Things pick
    back up around December," said Mike Larry, a taxi driver. On days when cruise
    ships don't arrive, shopkeepers often shut shops to enjoy a day off, in the
    "laid back" spirit of the Caribbean nation.Economic activity, primarily tourism,
    has suffered in The Bahamas since the double whammy of Hurricane Dorian in 2019
    and the COVID-19 pandemic, costing the nation a loss of $9.5 billion. Together
    with construction and manufacturing, tourism accounts for 60% of the developing
    nation's GDP, which was $12.9 billion in 2022.But when FTX made The Bahamas its
    base in September 2021, moving from the uncertainty of Hong Kong to the warmer
    shores of the archipelago, a funky cocktail of hope and skepticism hit the
    stands."If you came here last year everyone was talking about crypto. That ain't
    make no sense," said Larry as he drove through Nassau. "I don't know about
    cryptocurrency. They say, 'Put money you are willing to lose,' but the only
    thing I am willing to lose is my girlfriend."CoinDesk spoke to more than a dozen
    locals to gauge their interest in cryptocurrency or FTX before its collapse.
    Around half of them said they had little knowledge about crypto or showed a lack
    of risk-taking appetite. But almost all of the individuals holding white-collar
    jobs who spoke to CoinDesk invested in crypto in some form or the other.People
    waiting at a bus stand in the downtown area of Nassau, The Bahamas (Amitoj
    Singh/CoinDesk)"People here don't trust crypto because we love to feel the
    money," said Mario Young, technology manager at ST Global Markets, a crypto
    broker registered in The Bahamas. "But FTX invested a lot in the economy,
    donating to schools and the main shelter. So it seemed legitimate, as the
    government seemed to be on board with everything."'The red carpet'Young said he
    did not know much about FTX's relationship with The Bahamas government, and he
    still doesn't. But hints emerged during Bankman-Fried's trial this past
    October.While testifying, Bankman-Fried told prosecutor Danielle Sassoon he
    didn't remember making an offer to pay off The Bahamas' $11.6 billion national
    debt to the nation's Prime Minister Philip Davis in 2021. The offer was made,
    according to Michael Lewis' recent book about Bankman-Fried. Prosecutors also
    shared an email purportedly from Davis' personal Gmail account, asking
    Bankman-Fried to speak to Davis' son about a non-fungible token project the
    younger Davis was part of.Larry claimed he knew "a lot of big people who are in
    government and they got what they needed from" Bankman-Fried, without providing
    evidence. "He bought $300 million worth of property, right? I didn't even see
    him." Nearly $300 million was spent on real estate, largely homes and vacation
    properties for senior staff, an FTX attorney told a Delaware court days after
    the bankruptcy was filed.In October 2021, Davis cut a ribbon with Bankman-Fried
    to officially open the FTX office. A few months later, in April 2022, FTX broke
    ground on a $60 million headquarters in The Bahamas, which Davis said would
    rival Google's headquarters. Construction never began, and the worksite remains
    abandoned in what looks like a mini-jungle fenced from all sides.The Bahamas
    government or its Securities Commission did not return requests for an
    interview.The site of FTX's planned headquarters (Amitoj Singh/CoinDesk)
    (CoinDesk)Last month, Prime Minister Davis' message at a pre-conference dinner
    was emblematic of the strategy the Bahamas had adopted: "no risk, no reward."
    The next day, in his opening address at the conference, he expanded on it."Last
    night at dinner after my toast, I was reminded by a guest at my table that The
    Bahamas is a pioneer in the digital asset space, and history has proven that
    pioneers did not succeed without overcoming many obstacles or, as he put it,
    'without taking licks,'" Davis said without mentioning FTX.(Disclaimer: The
    Bahamas government provided travel and accommodation for this reporter to attend
    this conference in the nation held on Oct. 12 and 13, but wasn't involved with
    this article.)Bahamian Prime Minister Philip Davis making his toast at a
    pre-conference dinner. (Amitoj Singh/CoinDesk) (CoinDesk)The Bahamas, living its
    own trialBankman-Fried's trial may be over but The Bahamas appears to still be
    living through its own trial, hit by the stigma of rolling out a red carpet for
    FTX.The local residents CoinDesk spoke to said they were not closely following
    Bankman-Fried's trial, but they did question whether Bahamian authorities
    handled FTX and its unraveling appropriately.On Nov. 9, 2022, FTX halted all
    crypto withdrawals. But one day later, it reopened withdrawals, supposedly only
    for Bahamian funds citing local regulatory requirements (prosecutors in the U.S.
    showed the jury an email from Bankman-Fried offering to do so).We are deeply
    grateful for what The Bahamas has done for us, and deeply committed to it. We
    are also deeply sorry about this mess.As part of this: we have segregated funds
    for all Bahamian customers on FTX. And we would be more than happy to open up
    withdrawals for all Bahamian customers on FTX, so that they can, tomorrow, fully
    withdraw all of their assets, making them fully whole.It’s your call whether
    you want us to do this--but we are more than happy to and would consider it the
    very least of our duty to the country, and could open it up immediately if you
    reply saying you want us to. If we don’t hear back from you, we are going to
    go ahead and do it tomorrow.—Sam Bankman-Fried’s email to Ryan Pinder,
    Attorney General and Minister of Legal Affairs for the Commonwealth of The
    Bahamas, as per court records.A week later, the Bahamian regulator confirmed it
    had ordered contents of FTX's crypto wallets to be transferred to
    government-controlled wallets to protect clients or their funds."I was in shock.
    I couldn't believe it. Like seriously? They just shut down operations. Everyone
    was trying to withdraw money," said Young.It appeared that Bahamian regulators
    had managed to exert some control over FTX, forcing them to reopen withdrawals
    for Bahamians on Nov. 9, by freezing FTX assets and suspending its registration,
    a decision revealed on Nov. 10. The next day, FTX, a Bahamian entity, filed for
    bankruptcy protection in a U.S. court. On Nov. 13, Bahamian authorities opened a
    criminal investigation into FTX."It was a powerful event, especially for the
    financial sector," Young said. "Everyone was just in disbelief because FTX was
    the next big thing, it bought up a bunch of property and they were spending a
    lot of money."Exactly one month later, after U.S. authorities filed criminal
    charges against Bankman-Fried, the Royal Bahamas Police Force arrested the FTX
    founder.Cecil Wallace-Whitefield Centre, Office of the Prime Minister, Ministry
    of Finance, The Bahamas (CoinDesk/Amitoj Singh)Young appeared to give the
    Bahamian authorities the benefit of the doubt while pointing to the news report
    that stated Bankman-Fried had offered to pay off the nation's debt. "We just
    don't know (about the involvement of the government), but now people will always
    associate Bahamas with FTX."Larry's distrust for crypto and the government were
    in equal parts. "I didn't have the time to do my own research and I don't just
    go with what the government says."Austin believed the arrival of FTX and its
    collapse were both watershed moments."I had friends working in the space, people
    studying, excited about worthwhile careers," he said. "Young people were
    investing, buying land and getting mortgages. The bringing up of young people
    happened as quickly as it did because of FTX. And its collapse is also a
    watershed moment because it highlighted so many of the issues with crypto, for
    the better."But he did have questions: "Who's involved from the government? Why
    wasn't there oversight? Was there oversight? Were they too close to the
    regulators? How does it impact us when they resume regulatory perspective?"The
    Bahamas resumed regulatory updates five months after FTX's collapse by stating a
    desire to tighten its crypto laws, but not before facing a barrage of hits to
    its credibility as an innovative pioneer in financial services – FTX's new
    leadership responsible for restructuring called its Bahamas arm a "shell setup"
    to further Bankman-Fried's fraud. It also accused Bahamian authorities of aiding
    Bankman-Fried's attempts to escape justice and of directing unauthorized access
    to FTX's systems in order to withdraw assets.Since then, the nation has been
    fighting a crisis of confidence, a referendum on its credibility as a hub for
    financial services, which is the Caribbean nation's second-largest industry
    after tourism, accounting for 15% of its GDP.Its strategy seemingly borrows a
    page from Harry Potter, making FTX the equivalent of Lord Voldemort, adopting
    the strategy of not ever naming "He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named" – FTX."I believe
    from a PR perspective, The Bahamas is doing a good job," Austin said. "Just
    trying to stay out of it as much as possible, by not saying much and that's what
    I think it is. We're trying to navigate this without causing too much
    damage."Simultaneously, the government oversaw over 10 new companies registering
    in The Bahamas as a digital asset business over the past year and has promised
    new measures to its crypto regulatory framework, the Digital Assets and
    Registered Exchanges Act (DARE Act)."DARE Act will include – among other
    things – measures to clarify the regulation of stablecoins, and the
    introduction of more robust investor and consumer protection mechanisms,
    including new provisions for a single framework for the registration and
    oversight of digital assets custodians and the provision of custodial wallet
    services and requirements for the segregation of assets," Prime Minister Davis
    announced during last month's conference.The amendments are expected to be
    passed in Parliament by the end of the year, Davis said, and they also include a
    framework for the staking of clients' digital assets and the operation or
    management of a staking pool as a business.Albany, a residential complex where
    Sam Bankman-Fried lived in a penthouse with company insiders (Amitoj
    Singh/CoinDesk) (CoinDesk)Digital assets and The Bahamas, here to stay?A short
    stop at Nassau's Margaritaville Beach Resort, a lounging haunt of Bankman-Fried,
    who was known as SBF, and the friends who turned on him, didn't reveal any
    remnants of the FTX culture.On the other side of the island from where Ernst &
    Young, Citibank and others have offices is where the luxury Albany complex where
    SBF and friends lived in a penthouse sits perched by the ocean. The gated
    community made tête-à-tête's with SBF's neighbors or sneak peeks nearly
    impossible. As the sun set, a stunt biker rode by in an apparent rush to join a
    favorite weekend pastime of the locals. The next stop was Cocoplum, a restaurant
    Bankman-Fried and FTX used to good measure.The road leading to Albany (Amitoj
    Singh/CoinDesk)A waiter, who asked for anonymity as he was not allowed to speak
    publicly, told CoinDesk that Bankman-Fried had drawn other patrons' eyes in the
    past."It was another guest who turned around and asked, 'Do you know who that
    guy is?'" the waiter said. "He is very rich. Bankman-Fried looked like an
    ordinary Joe. I served him. Seemed nice. I wouldn't say he did any big tipping.
    Our restaurant gets millionaires all the time."The waiter insisted that the
    restaurant wasn't affected by the collapse of FTX, even though it supplied food
    to FTX's cafeteria. "I don't know about the nation's economy, but as a
    restaurant, FTX's collapse hasn't affected us."Cocoplum, a restaurant frequented
    by Bankman-Fried and FTX employees in The Bahamas (Amitoj Singh/CoinDesk)
    (CoinDesk)Exact data showing FTX's impact on The Bahamas doesn't exist, but the
    nation's GDP hints that it didn't suffer as much as may have been expected from
    a company which once offered to pay off the entire nation's national debt. GDP
    dropped from $13.06 billion in 2019 to $9.76 billion in 2020, but has been
    rising since. The GDP grew to $11.53 billion in 2021, $12.9 billion in 2022 and
    is projected to rise to $13.88 billion in 2023. This is in line with a study in
    February 2022 that said the Bahamian economy will return to pre-pandemic size in
    2023.​Still, the loss of the opportunity FTX promised and the damage as a
    result of the perceived red-carpet association with FTX remains incalculable."I
    believe we're still OK because our finance industry is a strong financial
    product and people are coming here, investing and holding large accounts and
    family accounts every single day," Austin said.In fact, the nation's leadership
    has resolved to regain credibility. At the conference, Prime Minister Davis
    said, "The Bahamas will continue to be a pioneer in the digital asset space" and
    touted the nation's Sand Dollar as the world's first central bank digital
    currency.In the meantime, the shock of the downfall of FTX and SBF remains
    embedded in the psyche of a nation."We were surprised. We all knew bitcoin could
    be a shady business, but the guy was on the cover of Forbes, who would have
    thought," the waiter said.Read all of CoinDesk's SBF trial coverage here.Edited
    by Nikhilesh De and Nick Baker.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2023/11/16/bitcoin-ordinals-token-ecosystem-emerges-as-latest-crypto-play-led-by-ordi-hype/
    Tokens based on the Bitcoin blockchain are emerging as the newest play among
    market participants after weeks of a bitcoin (BTC) price frenzy driven by
    expectations of an exchange-traded fund approval.The BRC-20 category of tokens
    has added some 21% as a sector in the past 24 hours. Infrastructure token trac
    (TRAC) rose 93% to lead the gains, followed by meme (MEME) at 69% and nals
    (NALS) at 36%.The BRC-20 standard (BRC stands for Bitcoin Request for Comment)
    was introduced in April to allow users to issue transferable tokens directly
    through the network for the first time. The tokens, called inscriptions,
    function on the Ordinals Protocol. That protocol allows users to embed data into
    the Bitcoin blockchain by inscribing references to digital art into small
    bitcoin-based transactions.Earlier this month, ordi (ORDI), a token tied to the
    Ordinals Protocol, was listed on influential exchange Binance, fueling a 50%
    price jump within hours. That helped spur bullish sentiment for BRC-20 tokens
    among traders, who hypothesized the Bitcoin token ecosystem could be a new
    avenue to search for profits.Data from Ordinals tracker OrdSpace shows over
    37,000 BRC-20 tokens exist as of Thursday.Some of the top BRC-20 tokens.
    (OrdSpace)Meanwhile, some popular social applications built on Bitcoin have
    started to introduce in-game tokens as part of attracting new users and boosting
    revenues.Alpha, an application that lets X (formerly Twitter) personalities
    issue ‘keys’ on its app for access to a closed group chat, started to allow
    users to offer their own tokens to users on Wednesday.These in-app tokens are
    designed to be cheaper than ‘keys,’ allowing their holders to participate in
    community games and lottery wheels. Alpha calls itself a “super app,”
    offering users a decentralized exchange, an NFT marketplace and a gaming
    store.Alpha developer @punk3700 previously told CoinDesk that bitcoin’s usage
    in DeFi applications has so far been limited to tokenized representations of
    bitcoin on other chains, such as Ethereum or Solana, but that Alpha’s
    developers believed a gap remained for wealthy bitcoin holders to use their
    assets on interactive applications.Edited by Sheldon Reback.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2023/11/16/pancakeswap-targets-gamefi-with-release-of-gaming-marketplace/
    Decentralized exchange PancakeSwap released its Gaming Marketplace on Wednesday,
    allowing developers to directly build, publish, and update games on the platform
    as it targets the niche gaming finance (GameFi) market.GameFi broadly refers to
    gaming applications using tokens to raise funds and incentivize growth. Some of
    these projects, such as Axie Infinity, were among the top-performing tokens by
    price growth in the 2021 bull market.The Gaming Marketplace features two
    published games: the popular “Pancake Protectors'' developed in partnership
    with Mobox in May 2023, and the new “Pancake Mayor'', a casual city-building
    game. The Pancake Protectors game has attracted over 25,000 players in a single
    day at its peak.PancakeSwap operates on nine popular blockchains: BNB Chain,
    Ethereum, Aptos, Polygon zkEVM, zkSync Era, Arbitrum One, Linea, Base, and
    opBNB, and developers from any of these blockchains can build and release games
    on the marketplace.PancakeSwap’s CAKE rose as much as 5% in the past 24 hours
    before reversing gains.Edited by Parikshit Mishra.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2023/11/15/the-protocol-ethereum-layer-2s-keep-coming-as-okx-apes-in/
    As blockchain developers head into the final stretch of 2023, a few trends stand
    out: the proliferation of Ethereum layer-2 networks, the ascendancy of
    zero-knowledge cryptography and the appearance of tokens, smart contracts and
    now file hosting on the Bitcoin blockchain.Another theme gathering momentum is
    interoperability – the idea that all of these blockchains and layers might
    eventually be connected. For today's feature, Sam Kessler examines "intents," a
    type of blockchain interaction that's rooted in the idea that the broader
    ecosystem of these increasingly intertwined networks could become more
    challenging to navigate.Everybody's doing it – launching new layer-2
    blockchains atop Ethereum to provide a venue for cheap and easy transactions.
    This week brought the news (thanks to this scoop from our Margaux Nijkerk) that
    the crypto exchange Kraken may be considering its own layer-2 network, just
    months after rival Coinbase launched a layer-2, Base. Details
    below.Also:Protocol Village: Infura, Zircuit, Rarimo, Agrotoken, UpshotOrdinals
    inscriptions activity linked to surge in Bitcoin transaction fees.Ethereum's
    Vitalik Buterin puts "plasma" networks back in the mix.You're reading The
    Protocol, CoinDesk’s weekly newsletter that explores the tech behind crypto,
    one block at a time. Subscribe here to get it every week.Network newsLAYER 2'S
    EVERYWHERE: In last week's The Protocol, we dedicated a not-inconsiderable
    quantity of ink to the fast-growing list of new "layer 2" blockchains aiming to
    provide a venue for fast and speedy transactions atop Ethereum. Grab another
    well, cause there's been plenty more announcements already this week. The most
    notable was inarguably Tuesday's disclosure by the crypto exchange OKX that it
    plans to build a layer 2 using Polygon's technology. Wednesday brought the news
    of Kinto, which has raised $5 million this year to develop a layer-2 network
    that's fully compliant with anti-money-laundering laws using Optimism's OP
    Stack, and Redstone, an "alternative data availability" chain designed by the
    Lattice team for OP Stack. There are nagging questions about just who is going
    to use all these networks, but developers suggest there's still not enough.
    "We're going to need a lot of L2s," Ryan Wyatt, who was just hired by a unit of
    the Optimism Foundation as chief growth officer after leaving Polygon Labs
    several months ago, told CoinDesk TV this week. "One chain, a mainnet, is not
    going to do it." Even Cardano founder Charles Hoskinson tried to elbow into the
    mix, posting Sunday on X (formerly Twitter) that "I'm game if you are" –
    attaching a link to CoinDesk's article last week about Kraken's discussions with
    prospective layer-2 technology partners including Polygon, Matter Labs and Nil
    Foundation – and tagging Kraken Chairman Jesse Powell. One snarky poster
    replied, "If this is how we reaching out, most likely not
    happening."ALSO:Bitcoin researcher Robin Linus has ignited fresh buzz with
    "BitStream" paper on file hosting using the original blockchain, just a month
    after his "BitVM" paper stirred up the community with the prospect of
    Ethereum-style smart contracts.Plasma blockchain designs, all the rage after
    they were first invented in 2017, could come back in vogue after Ethereum
    co-founder Vitalik Buterin wrote in a blog post Tuesday that the category "opens
    the door to very large scalability gains."Former boxing champ Manny Pacquiao’s
    foundation will use the Ethereum layer-2 blockchain Shibarium, from the
    SHIB-token-focused Shiba Inu project, for its operations.National Hockey League
    (finally) comes around to digital collectibles, using NFT-minting platform
    Sweet.Standard Chartered bank's investment arm launches tokenization
    platform.Yuga Labs confirms UVA-A emitting lights were the cause of ApeFest eye
    issues.Hacker steals $27M in USDT from wallet linked to Binance deployer wallet,
    which has been inactive since December 2020.El Salvador remains in the red on
    bitcoin holdings, but losses are narrowing.Protocol VillageHighlighting
    blockchain tech upgrades and developments.1. Ethereum platform Infura takes step
    toward decentralization with Microsoft, Tencent.2. Zircuit, a new EVM-compatible
    ZK rollup, is announcing its public testnet launch. According to the team:
    "Zircuit uses a hybrid approach that combines the latest ZK proofs with
    optimistic infrastructure. More efficient proof generation results in reduced
    fees and the development of new compression algorithms increases transaction
    speeds and saves users gas..3. Rarimo, an interoperability protocol for
    cross-chain identity and asset management, has launched version 2.0 of its
    Proof-of-Humanity plug-in, a solution that enables Web3 dApps to verify its
    users are humans instead of bots, according to the team.4. Agrotoken, the first
    global tokenization infrastructure for agricultural commodities, has announced
    its plans to launch on Polkadot, to enable seamless tokenization of agricultural
    commodities. According to the team: "Visa-backed Agrotoken is to build a
    Polkadot parachain that tokenizes soybeans, corn and wheat."5. Upshot, a
    protocol for decentralized delivery of alpha signals, announced its Machine
    Intelligence Network, according to the team: "The network crowdsources financial
    alpha produced by disparate machine learning models. 'Alpha Miners' contribute
    insights to the network in the form of proprietary data, predictive model
    features, or predictions, then are rewarded based on how useful their alpha is
    (as determined by our new 'Proof of Alpha' scoring mechanism)."See the entire
    Protocol Village list from this past week here. Money CenterFunraisingsTokenized
    cash fintech firm Fnality raises $95M led by Goldman and BNP Paribas.
    (Link)Superstate, a tokenization startup led by Compound founder Robert Leshner,
    gets $14M investment to bring traditional funds on-chain. (Link)Solana-based
    stablecoin remittances get boost with CFX Labs' fresh $9.5M fundraise to expand
    globally. (Link)Blockchain.com closes $110M raise: Bloomberg (Link)Deals and
    grantsCrypto exchange Bithumb plans South Korea IPO in second-half 2025: Report.
    (Link)Asia fund picks up majority stake in The Block, buys out shares tied to
    Sam Bankman-Fried loan. (Link)Ethereum scaling platform Polygon Labs has started
    an $85M grant program to entice developers to build applications in its
    ecosystem.Data and tokensDYDX token pumps ahead of massive $500M token unlock.
    (Link)Ethereum fees briefly jumped to $100 after BlackRock’s ETH ETF filing.
    (Link)DeFi Platform Raft suffers $3.3M exploit, but hacker likely took a loss on
    the attack. (Link)"Grayscale discount" continues to narrow as spot bitcoin,
    ether ETF euphoria works through markets. (Link)Cardano-based DEX MuesliSwap to
    open refund site 'soon' as some users voice concerns. (Link)Regulatory, Policy,
    and LegalGermany's Commerzbank wins crypto custody license. (Link)Singapore's
    central bank sponsors tokenization pilots alongside financial services
    heavyweights JPMorgan, UBS, along with blockchain firms including Axelar, Oasis
    Pro, Provenance Blockchain. (Link)As IMF chief says central bank digital
    currencies (CBDCs) can replace cash, and Kazakhstan's central bank pilots a
    digital tenge, Bank of America predicts the U.S. Federal Reserve is unlikely to
    issue a digital dollar in the near term. (Link)Fake BlackRock XRP ETF filing
    referred to Delaware Department of Justice. (Link)Bitcoin Transaction Fees Spike
    to Highest in Six MonthsChart of Bitcoin average transaction fees (in U.S.
    dollars) shows recent spike, hitting $15.865 on Nov. 9.
    (BitInfoCharts.com)Bitcoin transaction fees surged on Nov. 9 to $15.865, the
    highest in six months, according to BitInfoCharts, and some blockchain analysts
    are pointing the finger at a rise in Ordinals inscriptions activity – related
    to the tokens-on-Bitcoin frenzy that stirred up worries earlier this year over
    network congestion. Galaxy Research noted in a post on X that "over the last
    seven days, inscriptions-related transactions have made up 40% of total Bitcoin
    transaction count." CoinDesk reported that the gains came after Binance listed
    Ordinals’ ORDI tokens on its platform." Blockware Intelligence wrote that "the
    low priority-fee rate currently sits around ~69 sat/vByte but it reached as high
    as 250 sat/vByte last week" – contributing to a "boost to miner profits
    courtesy of higher transaction fees and a higher BTC price." According to
    analysts at Coinbase Institutional, "Ordinal trading volumes (averaging $10M
    daily) over the past week have been comparable to NFT trading volumes on
    Ethereum (averaging $16M daily)."CalendarNov. 13-19: Devconnect, Istanbul.Nov.
    15-17: North American Blockchain Summit, Fort Worth, Texas.Nov. 28: EOS native
    consensus upgrade with “instant finality.”Dec. 1-3: Africa Bitcoin
    Conference, Ghana.Jan. 30: Stellar upgrade for Soroban smart contracts, public
    network readiness date.Feb. 22-24: Bitcoin++, Buenos Aires.April 2024
    (estimate): Next Bitcoin halving.April 8-12: Paris Blockchain Week.May 29-31,
    2024: Consensus, Austin TexasJuly 25-27: Bitcoin 2024, Nashville.Edited by
    Bradley Keoun.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2023/11/16/sam-bankman-frieds-trial-may-be-over-but-the-bahamas-is-living-its-own-trial/
    Nassau, The Bahamas — In early 2022, Ryan Austin was part of a non-profit
    foundation devoted to teaching people in The Bahamas how to code. One of the
    early donations it received was from FTX, Sam Bankman-Fried's now-defunct
    cryptocurrency exchange that operated from the nation. The $30,000 contribution
    was made to train public school teachers in coding. About 90 teachers were shown
    how to teach public school kids to code during the summer in a kind of boot
    camp.Austin went back to the FTX team with statistics reflecting the program's
    success with a request: Let's do this again."I think they were quite impressed
    and thought of using our data to boost their CSR Corporate Social
    Responsibility," he told CoinDesk. FTX gave Austin and his team a pat on the
    back and the kind of goodbye that said, "We'll be in touch." That didn't
    happen.Instead, in November 2022, the FTX empire dramatically and rapidly
    collapsed into bankruptcy after a chain of events triggered by a CoinDesk report
    that raised questions about FTX's financials. On Nov. 2, 2023, a jury found FTX
    founder Bankman-Fried guilty of seven counts of fraud and conspiracy tied to the
    exchange's operation.Many decisions that led to "one of the biggest financial
    frauds in American history" took place outside the U.S., in The Bahamas, where
    FTX's leadership set up shop in 2021."There was a wave, an excitement about FTX
    in the air," a nostalgic Austin told CoinDesk. "Businesses got a boost from
    their existence here. Employees were paid well and there was a lot of excitement
    around crypto and then suddenly, everyone was trying to figure out what the hell
    happened."Empty street in downtown Nassau, The Bahamas (Amitoj
    Singh/CoinDesk)Pre-collapseIn October 2023, as Bankman-Fried fought for his
    innocence in a Manhattan courthouse, downtown Nassau, the capital city of The
    Bahamas, appeared to be "a ghost town," though that wasn't entirely reflective
    of its economy."There's no Bahamas without tourism. It's the slow season. No
    cruise ship today. On Wednesday we had six (so it was different). Things pick
    back up around December," said Mike Larry, a taxi driver. On days when cruise
    ships don't arrive, shopkeepers often shut shops to enjoy a day off, in the
    "laid back" spirit of the Caribbean nation.Economic activity, primarily tourism,
    has suffered in The Bahamas since the double whammy of Hurricane Dorian in 2019
    and the COVID-19 pandemic, costing the nation a loss of $9.5 billion. Together
    with construction and manufacturing, tourism accounts for 60% of the developing
    nation's GDP, which was $12.9 billion in 2022.But when FTX made The Bahamas its
    base in September 2021, moving from the uncertainty of Hong Kong to the warmer
    shores of the archipelago, a funky cocktail of hope and skepticism hit the
    stands."If you came here last year everyone was talking about crypto. That ain't
    make no sense," said Larry as he drove through Nassau. "I don't know about
    cryptocurrency. They say, 'Put money you are willing to lose,' but the only
    thing I am willing to lose is my girlfriend."CoinDesk spoke to more than a dozen
    locals to gauge their interest in cryptocurrency or FTX before its collapse.
    Around half of them said they had little knowledge about crypto or showed a lack
    of risk-taking appetite. But almost all of the individuals holding white-collar
    jobs who spoke to CoinDesk invested in crypto in some form or the other.People
    waiting at a bus stand in the downtown area of Nassau, The Bahamas (Amitoj
    Singh/CoinDesk)"People here don't trust crypto because we love to feel the
    money," said Mario Young, technology manager at ST Global Markets, a crypto
    broker registered in The Bahamas. "But FTX invested a lot in the economy,
    donating to schools and the main shelter. So it seemed legitimate, as the
    government seemed to be on board with everything."'The red carpet'Young said he
    did not know much about FTX's relationship with The Bahamas government, and he
    still doesn't. But hints emerged during Bankman-Fried's trial this past
    October.While testifying, Bankman-Fried told prosecutor Danielle Sassoon he
    didn't remember making an offer to pay off The Bahamas' $11.6 billion national
    debt to the nation's Prime Minister Philip Davis in 2021. The offer was made,
    according to Michael Lewis' recent book about Bankman-Fried. Prosecutors also
    shared an email purportedly from Davis' personal Gmail account, asking
    Bankman-Fried to speak to Davis' son about a non-fungible token project the
    younger Davis was part of.Larry claimed he knew "a lot of big people who are in
    government and they got what they needed from" Bankman-Fried, without providing
    evidence. "He bought $300 million worth of property, right? I didn't even see
    him." Nearly $300 million was spent on real estate, largely homes and vacation
    properties for senior staff, an FTX attorney told a Delaware court days after
    the bankruptcy was filed.In October 2021, Davis cut a ribbon with Bankman-Fried
    to officially open the FTX office. A few months later, in April 2022, FTX broke
    ground on a $60 million headquarters in The Bahamas, which Davis said would
    rival Google's headquarters. Construction never began, and the worksite remains
    abandoned in what looks like a mini-jungle fenced from all sides.The Bahamas
    government or its Securities Commission did not return requests for an
    interview.The site of FTX's planned headquarters (Amitoj Singh/CoinDesk)
    (CoinDesk)Last month, Prime Minister Davis' message at a pre-conference dinner
    was emblematic of the strategy the Bahamas had adopted: "no risk, no reward."
    The next day, in his opening address at the conference, he expanded on it."Last
    night at dinner after my toast, I was reminded by a guest at my table that The
    Bahamas is a pioneer in the digital asset space, and history has proven that
    pioneers did not succeed without overcoming many obstacles or, as he put it,
    'without taking licks,'" Davis said without mentioning FTX.(Disclaimer: The
    Bahamas government provided travel and accommodation for this reporter to attend
    this conference in the nation held on Oct. 12 and 13, but wasn't involved with
    this article.)Bahamian Prime Minister Philip Davis making his toast at a
    pre-conference dinner. (Amitoj Singh/CoinDesk) (CoinDesk)The Bahamas, living its
    own trialBankman-Fried's trial may be over but The Bahamas appears to still be
    living through its own trial, hit by the stigma of rolling out a red carpet for
    FTX.The local residents CoinDesk spoke to said they were not closely following
    Bankman-Fried's trial, but they did question whether Bahamian authorities
    handled FTX and its unraveling appropriately.On Nov. 9, 2022, FTX halted all
    crypto withdrawals. But one day later, it reopened withdrawals, supposedly only
    for Bahamian funds citing local regulatory requirements (prosecutors in the U.S.
    showed the jury an email from Bankman-Fried offering to do so).We are deeply
    grateful for what The Bahamas has done for us, and deeply committed to it. We
    are also deeply sorry about this mess.As part of this: we have segregated funds
    for all Bahamian customers on FTX. And we would be more than happy to open up
    withdrawals for all Bahamian customers on FTX, so that they can, tomorrow, fully
    withdraw all of their assets, making them fully whole.It’s your call whether
    you want us to do this--but we are more than happy to and would consider it the
    very least of our duty to the country, and could open it up immediately if you
    reply saying you want us to. If we don’t hear back from you, we are going to
    go ahead and do it tomorrow.—Sam Bankman-Fried’s email to Ryan Pinder,
    Attorney General and Minister of Legal Affairs for the Commonwealth of The
    Bahamas, as per court records.A week later, the Bahamian regulator confirmed it
    had ordered contents of FTX's crypto wallets to be transferred to
    government-controlled wallets to protect clients or their funds."I was in shock.
    I couldn't believe it. Like seriously? They just shut down operations. Everyone
    was trying to withdraw money," said Young.It appeared that Bahamian regulators
    had managed to exert some control over FTX, forcing them to reopen withdrawals
    for Bahamians on Nov. 9, by freezing FTX assets and suspending its registration,
    a decision revealed on Nov. 10. The next day, FTX, a Bahamian entity, filed for
    bankruptcy protection in a U.S. court. On Nov. 13, Bahamian authorities opened a
    criminal investigation into FTX."It was a powerful event, especially for the
    financial sector," Young said. "Everyone was just in disbelief because FTX was
    the next big thing, it bought up a bunch of property and they were spending a
    lot of money."Exactly one month later, after U.S. authorities filed criminal
    charges against Bankman-Fried, the Royal Bahamas Police Force arrested the FTX
    founder.Cecil Wallace-Whitefield Centre, Office of the Prime Minister, Ministry
    of Finance, The Bahamas (CoinDesk/Amitoj Singh)Young appeared to give the
    Bahamian authorities the benefit of the doubt while pointing to the news report
    that stated Bankman-Fried had offered to pay off the nation's debt. "We just
    don't know (about the involvement of the government), but now people will always
    associate Bahamas with FTX."Larry's distrust for crypto and the government were
    in equal parts. "I didn't have the time to do my own research and I don't just
    go with what the government says."Austin believed the arrival of FTX and its
    collapse were both watershed moments."I had friends working in the space, people
    studying, excited about worthwhile careers," he said. "Young people were
    investing, buying land and getting mortgages. The bringing up of young people
    happened as quickly as it did because of FTX. And its collapse is also a
    watershed moment because it highlighted so many of the issues with crypto, for
    the better."But he did have questions: "Who's involved from the government? Why
    wasn't there oversight? Was there oversight? Were they too close to the
    regulators? How does it impact us when they resume regulatory perspective?"The
    Bahamas resumed regulatory updates five months after FTX's collapse by stating a
    desire to tighten its crypto laws, but not before facing a barrage of hits to
    its credibility as an innovative pioneer in financial services – FTX's new
    leadership responsible for restructuring called its Bahamas arm a "shell setup"
    to further Bankman-Fried's fraud. It also accused Bahamian authorities of aiding
    Bankman-Fried's attempts to escape justice and of directing unauthorized access
    to FTX's systems in order to withdraw assets.Since then, the nation has been
    fighting a crisis of confidence, a referendum on its credibility as a hub for
    financial services, which is the Caribbean nation's second-largest industry
    after tourism, accounting for 15% of its GDP.Its strategy seemingly borrows a
    page from Harry Potter, making FTX the equivalent of Lord Voldemort, adopting
    the strategy of not ever naming "He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named" – FTX."I believe
    from a PR perspective, The Bahamas is doing a good job," Austin said. "Just
    trying to stay out of it as much as possible, by not saying much and that's what
    I think it is. We're trying to navigate this without causing too much
    damage."Simultaneously, the government oversaw over 10 new companies registering
    in The Bahamas as a digital asset business over the past year and has promised
    new measures to its crypto regulatory framework, the Digital Assets and
    Registered Exchanges Act (DARE Act)."DARE Act will include – among other
    things – measures to clarify the regulation of stablecoins, and the
    introduction of more robust investor and consumer protection mechanisms,
    including new provisions for a single framework for the registration and
    oversight of digital assets custodians and the provision of custodial wallet
    services and requirements for the segregation of assets," Prime Minister Davis
    announced during last month's conference.The amendments are expected to be
    passed in Parliament by the end of the year, Davis said, and they also include a
    framework for the staking of clients' digital assets and the operation or
    management of a staking pool as a business.Albany, a residential complex where
    Sam Bankman-Fried lived in a penthouse with company insiders (Amitoj
    Singh/CoinDesk) (CoinDesk)Digital assets and The Bahamas, here to stay?A short
    stop at Nassau's Margaritaville Beach Resort, a lounging haunt of Bankman-Fried,
    who was known as SBF, and the friends who turned on him, didn't reveal any
    remnants of the FTX culture.On the other side of the island from where Ernst &
    Young, Citibank and others have offices is where the luxury Albany complex where
    SBF and friends lived in a penthouse sits perched by the ocean. The gated
    community made tête-à-tête's with SBF's neighbors or sneak peeks nearly
    impossible. As the sun set, a stunt biker rode by in an apparent rush to join a
    favorite weekend pastime of the locals. The next stop was Cocoplum, a restaurant
    Bankman-Fried and FTX used to good measure.The road leading to Albany (Amitoj
    Singh/CoinDesk)A waiter, who asked for anonymity as he was not allowed to speak
    publicly, told CoinDesk that Bankman-Fried had drawn other patrons' eyes in the
    past."It was another guest who turned around and asked, 'Do you know who that
    guy is?'" the waiter said. "He is very rich. Bankman-Fried looked like an
    ordinary Joe. I served him. Seemed nice. I wouldn't say he did any big tipping.
    Our restaurant gets millionaires all the time."The waiter insisted that the
    restaurant wasn't affected by the collapse of FTX, even though it supplied food
    to FTX's cafeteria. "I don't know about the nation's economy, but as a
    restaurant, FTX's collapse hasn't affected us."Cocoplum, a restaurant frequented
    by Bankman-Fried and FTX employees in The Bahamas (Amitoj Singh/CoinDesk)
    (CoinDesk)Exact data showing FTX's impact on The Bahamas doesn't exist, but the
    nation's GDP hints that it didn't suffer as much as may have been expected from
    a company which once offered to pay off the entire nation's national debt. GDP
    dropped from $13.06 billion in 2019 to $9.76 billion in 2020, but has been
    rising since. The GDP grew to $11.53 billion in 2021, $12.9 billion in 2022 and
    is projected to rise to $13.88 billion in 2023. This is in line with a study in
    February 2022 that said the Bahamian economy will return to pre-pandemic size in
    2023.​Still, the loss of the opportunity FTX promised and the damage as a
    result of the perceived red-carpet association with FTX remains incalculable."I
    believe we're still OK because our finance industry is a strong financial
    product and people are coming here, investing and holding large accounts and
    family accounts every single day," Austin said.In fact, the nation's leadership
    has resolved to regain credibility. At the conference, Prime Minister Davis
    said, "The Bahamas will continue to be a pioneer in the digital asset space" and
    touted the nation's Sand Dollar as the world's first central bank digital
    currency.In the meantime, the shock of the downfall of FTX and SBF remains
    embedded in the psyche of a nation."We were surprised. We all knew bitcoin could
    be a shady business, but the guy was on the cover of Forbes, who would have
    thought," the waiter said.Read all of CoinDesk's SBF trial coverage here.Edited
    by Nikhilesh De and Nick Baker.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2023/11/16/fbi-arrests-trio-accused-of-bilking-banks-out-of-10m-converting-funds-to-crypto/
    Three men duped New York-area banks into shelling out more than $10 million and
    tried to make off with the money by converting it to crypto, U.S. Attorney
    Damian Williams said Thursday in a statement.Zhong Shi Gao, Naifeng Xu and Fei
    Jiang allegedly stole millions of dollars from nearly a dozen financial
    institutions throughout the New York metropolitan area between 2018 and 2022,
    law enforcement officials said. The trio bilked banks out of the funds by posing
    as victims of fraudulent money transfers, prompting institutions to credit them
    in the amount of the supposed unauthorized transfers and "effectively doubling
    their money," according to an indictment."These charges should serve as a
    warning to fraudsters and cybercriminals who think they can turn to
    cryptocurrency to hide their identities – together with our partner agencies,
    we will find you and hold you accountable for your crimes," Williams said in the
    statement.Each of the accused men has been arrested by the Federal Bureau of
    Investigation and faces four criminal charges in U.S. District Court for the
    Southern District of New York: bank fraud conspiracy, conspiracy to commit wire
    fraud affecting a financial institution, money laundering conspiracy and
    aggravated identity theft. The maximum sentence for all the charges combined
    could amount to nearly 100 years, the release shows.Authorities said the men
    enlisted foreign nationals from China and Taiwan to open U.S. bank accounts that
    the trio could use to manage the transfers that they'd pretend were
    unwanted.Read More: FBI Charges 6 for Allegedly Running $30M Money Transmitting
    Business Using CryptoEdited by Jesse Hamilton.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/business/2023/11/16/head-of-dubai-crypto-regulator-to-quit-to-pursue-other-interests/
    The CEO of Dubai's crypto regulator, Henson Orser, is set to be replaced by
    Matthew White, a partner at PwC, the Virtual Assets Regulatory Authority (VARA)
    said in an email.Bloomberg reported the change earlier, citing a statement from
    the regulator.Additionally, more than 12 crypto companies are set to be fined
    for not complying with guidelines by a Nov. 17 deadline, Bloomberg said, citing
    anonymous sources who asked not to be identified because the matter is private.
    The names of the firms were not mentioned, but don't include Binance, OKX or
    ByBit and some others, which will be given more time to comply, according to the
    report. In its email, VARA did not comment on the fines.The Virtual Assets
    Regulatory Authority has been run by Orser since January. He will remain fully
    engaged for a "planned transition" as a consultant, VARA said.“It was a great
    experience and I’m fully vested in a consultative capacity to support VARA,”
    Orser said to Bloomberg. “I’m leaving to pursue other interests.” Orser
    did not immediately respond to a request for comment from CoinDesk.White has
    previously worked with VARA as a consultant and has headed the Cybersecurity and
    Digital Trust team at PwC.In the past few weeks, Dubai has fined crypto
    bankruptcy claims exchange OPNX and its founders, who also set up the failed
    hedge fund Three Arrows Capital (3AC), and has awarded regulatory approvals to
    Crypto.com, Nomura-backed crypto custody firm Komainu, and Hex Trust, another
    custody firm.Read More: U.S. Crypto Regulatory Fog Keeps Standard Chartered
    Rooted in UAE, AsiaEdited by Sheldon Reback.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2023/11/16/california-texas-among-states-accusing-gs-partners-of-misleading-crypto-investors/
    Multiple U.S. states have ordered GS Partners to halt operations, accusing the
    company of defrauding investors in a number of crypto schemes, including
    tokenized pieces of a Dubai skyscraper and stakes of metaverse property.The
    operation, broadly labeled by the agencies as GS Partners, is an organization
    that includes GSB Gold Standard Bank Ltd., Swiss Valorem Bank Ltd. and GSB Gold
    Standard Corporation AG – all said to be controlled by Josip Dortmund Heit.
    The businesses hired sports celebrities such as former boxer Floyd Mayweather
    Jr. and footballer Roberto Carlos to get attention to an array of investments,
    regulators said.The affiliated businesses are accused of violating state laws
    when they "offered and sold unqualified securities and made material
    misrepresentations and omissions to investors related to crypto asset
    investments," according to the case filed Thursday by the California Department
    of Financial Protection and Innovation. Texas, Alabama and other jurisdictions
    are pursuing similar actions.The business has been "broadly perpetrating various
    fraudulent investment schemesthat are threatening immediate and irreparable
    public harm," according to an action Thursday from the Texas State Securities
    Board."These investment schemes are often marketed as a unique opportunity to
    earn lucrative profits and secure generational wealth through blockchain
    technology, a metaverse, liquidity and staking pools, a tokenized skyscraper and
    digital assets purportedly convertible to physical gold," the Texas agency
    described in its emergency cease-and-desist order.One part of the business
    offered digital assets tied to the metaverse's Lydian World, and another
    investments in a 36-story "G999 Tower" that "radiates majesty as it shines under
    the burning sun" in Dubai, according to marketing information described in the
    Texas case. The business also operated a multi-level marketing platform that
    offered “MetaCertificates,” regulators said.Heit and other GS Partners
    executives, including Bruce Innes Wylde Hughes and Dirc Zahlmann, are directly
    named in the actions.Neither Heit nor the company immediately responded to
    attempts to reach them through business sites and social media.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2023/11/16/ramaswamy-shares-crypto-plan-making-him-the-only-gop-candidate-who-has-one/
    Presidential hopeful Vivek Ramaswamy has revealed a crypto plan that aims to
    protect core aspects of the industry, including software developers and unhosted
    digital wallets.He says he wants to shrink the federal government dramatically
    and steer crypto into a clear regulatory structure that generally considers
    tokens to be commodities.Republican presidential candidate Vivek Ramaswamy has a
    message for most of the employees at the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
    (SEC) if he's elected to the White House: You're fired. And everybody still left
    at their desks would need to back off the crypto industry, according to the
    candidate's new policy strategy for U.S. digital assets.Most cryptocurrencies
    are commodities that are none of the SEC's business, according to Ramaswamy's
    crypto plan shared with CoinDesk on Thursday and set for public release at the
    North American Blockchain Summit in Texas. The pharmaceutical entrepreneur
    remains among the top four GOP candidates, maintaining 5% support in a dwindling
    field dominated by former President Donald Trump, according to polling data.One
    issue that separates him from other candidates is his enthusiastic support of
    crypto as a financial innovation. He argues that the sector needs to have
    several freedoms protected: the right to code as a First Amendment freedom that
    should shield software developers from criminal or enforcement vulnerability,
    the right to maintain self-hosted digital wallets outside the reach of
    regulators and the right to know how each new virtual asset will be treated by
    the government."A big part of what we're missing today is clarity from our
    regulators," Ramaswamy said in an interview with CoinDesk TV. "What we're going
    to have is rescinding any of those regulations that are allowing the regulatory
    state to go after perfectly legal behavior, but by claiming that somehow it
    shouldn't exist because they don't like it. All of that can end on my
    watch."Firing spreeIn his first day in office, he wants to fire 50% of the
    federal workforce, including the SEC, he said. That's more than a million
    workers, and he favors eventually cutting even deeper."A big part of the problem
    is the proliferation of the size of that bureaucracy that I can shut down and
    rein in as the U.S. president, without having to run through Congress," he
    said.Reducing the federal workforce has been a popular political aim that
    elected officials have historically found difficult to accomplish in practice,
    and the employment numbers have remained relatively flat, roughly the same now
    as they have been since the 1970s. Just on a technical level, Ramaswamy's idea
    would have to run a gauntlet of labor and government-employment laws and may not
    be entirely possible.If he succeeds, his stripped-down regulators would be
    directed to enforce only crypto policies explicitly provided by Congress. And
    when they're evaluating whether certain assets should fall into the SEC's
    securities bucket or the jurisdiction of the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
    Commission (CFTC) that oversees commodities trading, he favors a process in
    which new assets have an initial safe harbor before being "programmatically
    classified into securities or commodities."He tends to think most assets will
    fall "on the side of commodities." He said the current approach from regulators
    is flawed, and criticized the unwillingness of SEC Chair Gary Gensler to say how
    he thinks ether (ETH) should be classified."If the head of the SEC or the
    commissioners of the SEC cannot instantly answer whether or not some widely used
    cryptocurrency or coin counts as a security or a commodity, that means the rules
    that we have right now are a failure," he said.To some degree, that question may
    soon be answered by the courts before the 2024 election. In the SEC's fights
    against such crypto companies as Ripple and Coinbase, federal judges are already
    beginning to assess whether the regulator has been right in how it decides –
    under the so-called Howey test – which tokens and products are
    securities.Shielding developersA Ramaswamy administration wouldn't pursue
    software developers just for writing code, he said, citing the Tornado Cash
    case, and his White House would leave people's unhosted wallets alone, arguing
    they're vital tools of independence in the digital age.He granted that he
    wouldn't be able to count on getting Congress to enact his agenda, so his plan
    focuses on what the executive branch can accomplish.Presidential candidates
    routinely lean into rhetoric about their hypothetical first day in office, but
    major changes to regulatory agencies often depend on getting new leaders in.
    That's a political process – dependent on Senate confirmations – that has
    sometimes extended well into a president's first term in the White House. And
    even years later, some agencies – like the Biden administration's Office of
    the Comptroller of the Currency – may still be stuck with acting chiefs who
    haven't been stamped with Senate approval.In one of Ramaswamy's policy
    positions, he said he'd "order the Federal Reserve to grant stablecoin issuers
    the same access to Fed facilities that incumbent banks enjoy." Even if Ramaswamy
    were able to get a new chairman and other governors onto the Fed board in
    Washington, the central bank is an independent entity that historically hasn't
    looked kindly on presidential intervention. A president can't order the Fed to
    do anything, though the White House has other ways to apply pressure to the
    institution.Whether Ramaswamy's goals are realistic or not, if he or another
    Republican is chosen to replace Biden next year, the next White House resident
    doesn't arrive until January of 2025.Meanwhile, the SEC and the Internal Revenue
    Service have major digital assets rule proposals poised for adoption that will
    dramatically overhaul how the sector does business in the U.S., and the federal
    courts are on the verge of hugely consequential decisions. So the U.S. crypto
    industry of 2025 may look far different than it does at the end of 2023.Read
    More: Vote if You Want, but Remember 'Cypherpunks Write Code'Edited by Nikhilesh
    De.
    
    

CoinDesk: URL: https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2023/11/16/uks-proposed-crypto-rules-could-drive-away-foreign-firms-lawyers-say/
    Crypto industry stakeholders have asked the U.K. government to consider
    extending regulatory exceptions for foreign TradFi firms to crypto.The U.K.
    government has said it doesn’t plan to do so.The tough requirements on foreign
    crypto firms could drive business away from the aspiring digital asset hub,
    lawyers told CoinDesk.The U.K. government plans to apply its upcoming crypto
    rules to all firms, without exception, a decision lawyers say could drive
    international companies out of the market.Industry stakeholders have called for
    the government – which has said it wants to turn the U.K. into a global hub
    for crypto – to grant some regulatory exceptions for foreign crypto firms
    looking to operate in the country. In particular, they want it to expand the
    scope of overseas persons exclusions (OPE) to include crypto.The OPE allows some
    traditional financial institutions (like multilateral trading facilities that
    exchange financial instruments) to operate without authorization. For example,
    the OPE can be used when the regulated activity is done “with or through” an
    authorized or exempt person.The industry requests were made during a government
    consultation on crypto regulation, and in its response, the government made it
    clear that it was not planning to extend the OPE to crypto.Choosing not to make
    those exceptions, however, could stifle international firms’ willingness to
    operate in the U.K., said Albert Weatherill, a partner at law firm Norton Rose
    Fulbright during an interview with CoinDesk."The removal of the OPE, I think, is
    a bit of a blow – in my opinion – for the industry," Weatherill said.Harsher
    rules for cryptoThe government doesn’t want to extend the OPE to crypto
    because "the context of crypto asset markets is not the same as those for
    traditional financial products to which the OPE already applies," it said in its
    consultation response.The government's position is that firms that deal with
    U.K. retail consumers should be required to be authorized regardless of where
    they are located."It often isn’t possible to use the OPE if you provide
    services to retail clients," Hannah Meakin, also a partner at Norton Rose
    Fulbright told CoinDesk in a statement.However, "what the government is actually
    doing is blocking use of the OPE for crypto to any overseas person, even if
    they’re only doing institutional business," Meakin said. "Perhaps the
    government thinks there is a different solution, such as deference or
    equivalence, but we are still waiting to see any details on this."CoinDesk also
    reached out to the U.K. Treasury for more clarity but did not hear back before
    press time."They could have just narrowed the overseas persons exclusions more
    to say it's only available for wholesale transactions but they haven't," said
    Diego Ballon Ossio, partner at law firm Clifford Chance. "So I think that's a
    missed opportunity."Read more: U.K. Publishes Final Proposals for Crypto,
    Stablecoin RegulationU.K. regulators plan on supervising crypto in phases,
    starting with stablecoin legislation coming early next year with policies for
    the wider crypto sector coming later. It has already passed legislation that
    treats crypto as a regulated activity under the Financial Services and Markets
    Act 2023.The government wants international crypto trading firms to have to set
    up a U.K. branch if they want to get authorized to operate in the country, but
    companies may simply decide it’s "not worth the hassle," Weatherill said."If
    you are an exchange that's very active in Asia your client base is not normally
    here, but you've got lots of liquidity, why would you want to get a branch here
    if you have to go through the pain of setting up the brands, hiring people,
    etc..?" Ballon Ossio said.Read more: Why Some Crypto Firms Are Suspending
    Services in the U.K.Edited by Sandali Handagama.
    
    

